For pickled eggs: Combine vinegar, 1/2 cup water, shallots, thyme sprigs, cloves, bay leaf, salt, and sugar in medium saucepan; bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer pickling mixture 15 minutes to allow flavors to blend. Remove mixture from heat and cool to room temperature.
Pierce hard-boiled eggs all over with thin skewer or fork to depth of 1/2 inch. Place eggs in 1-quart glass jar or medium bowl. Pour pickling mixture over eggs; cover and refrigerate overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
For chicken liver topping: Combine 1/2 cup olive oil, thyme sprigs, peeled garlic cloves, 1 bay leaf, and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium skillet; heat over medium-low heat. Add chicken heart and gizzard to skillet and cook gently until tender, turning occasionally, about 30 minutes (do not allow oil mixture to boil). Transfer heart and gizzard to cutting board and cool completely, then chop finely. Reserve skillet with oil mixture.
Add chicken livers to oil mixture in same skillet and cook gently over medium heat until brown on outside but still pink in center, about 10 minutes. Transfer chicken livers and garlic cloves from skillet to cutting board and cool, then chop finely.
Discard thyme sprigs and all but 2 tablespoons oil from skillet. Add butter, onion, 1 tablespoon chopped thyme, minced garlic, and remaining bay leaf to same skillet; sauté over medium heat until onion is soft, about 10 minutes. Add wine and Port and cook until almost evaporated, about 2 minutes. Add chopped gizzards and chicken livers and simmer 1 minute. Season to taste with salt and pepper. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool slightly. Cover and chill. Rewarm over medium heat just until warm before using.
Preheat oven to 400°F. Arrange baguette slices in single layer on baking sheet; brush tops lightly with olive oil. Toast in oven until pale golden, about 12 minutes. Cool. DO AHEAD: Baguette toasts can be made 4 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.
Divide chicken liver mixture among crostini. Slice 2 to 3 pickled eggs into rounds. Top liver mixture on each baguette with 1 egg round and a few shallot rounds from pickling liquid. Sprinkle lightly with remaining 1/2 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme and serve.
