1. In a large bowl, beat the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla, blending well after each addition. Add the flour, xanthan gum, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt, blending well after each addition. After adding the final ingredient, beat until the mixture becomes thicker and a bit more elastic.
2. Divide the dough into two equal portions, wrap each in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or until firm. Line baking sheets with parchment paper and set them aside.
3. Once the dough has chilled, remove one of the dough portions from the refrigerator, place it between two sheets of plastic wrap, and roll into a round shape about 1/8 inch thick. Repeat with the other portion of the dough. Place all of the dough back in the refrigerator, still wrapped in plastic wrap, and chill for another 15 to 20 minutes or until firm again.
4. Once the rolled-out dough is chilled, working with one portion at a time, remove and replace one piece of plastic wrap, and remove the plastic wrap from the other side. Using a 2-inch round cookie cutter, cut the dough into circles as close together as possible. Repeat the process with the other half of the dough. Gather the scraps of dough that remain, roll them flat again, chill, and cut more rounds.
5. Place the rounds about 1 inch apart on prepared baking sheets. Place the baking sheets in the refrigerator to chill while you preheat your oven to 325°F. Once the oven is ready, remove the baking sheets from the refrigerator, set them in the center of the preheated oven, and bake at 325°F for 5 minutes. Rotate the baking sheets 180 degrees and bake 4 to 6 minutes more, until the cookies are firm but not burned.
6. Cool the cookies for 5 to 10 minutes on the baking sheets. If they are too soft once they have cooled for 10 minutes, return them to the oven and bake for another couple minutes for that "snap." Once the cookies are baked and cooled enough to be firm, transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely.
