Preheat the oven to 350°F. Spray 2 éclair pans with organic cooking spray and dust them with cocoa powder; set aside. Fit a small pastry bag with a size-12 tip and set aside.
Using a ladle, fill each prepared éclair mold two-thirds full with cake batter. Bake for exactly 18 minutes. A cake tester should come out clean.
Let the cake sit in the pans for 5 to 10 minutes. Then hold each pan upside down and gently coax the Goldies out. Place them upside down on a wire rack and allow to cool completely.
Once they have cooled, use a serrated knife to trim off the domed excess cake on the bottom of each Goldie. Eat the scraps as a reward for your hard work, but be careful: they're addictive!
Fill the pastry bag with buttercream . One at a time, turn the cakes over and starting at one end, insert the piping tip almost an inch deep and insert a bit of cream. Do this every 1/2 inch. You should end up with 3 or 4 holes in the bottom of each Goldie where you've inserted the buttercream. (My motto is "A bite of cream in every bite!") When all the Goldies are filled, cover them with plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator for at least 15 minutes.
While the Goldies are chilling, prepare theMelted Chocolate Ganache . As it cools, set up a work area by covering a baking sheet with parchment paper.
One at a time, with the rounded side facing down, dip the Goldies halfway into the ganache. Flip them over and place them upright on the parchment paper. Use a small spatula to spread the chocolate over all sides of the Goldies except the bottom. Once they are coated, return the Goldies to the refrigerator to allow the coating to set, about 20 minutes.
Place the Goldies on a serving tray or in individual éclair wrappers. Using a 1-inch brush, lightly brush gold metallic powder on top of the Goldies, going back and forth to ensure they’re covered completely in gold.
to decorate Besides dusting the ganache with metallic powder, you can simply drizzle melted white chocolate on top of the dark ganache for contrast; or after coating the Goldies with the ganache, freeze them for 10 minutes and then dip them halfway in warm melted white chocolate—a twist on the black and white cookie.
