Make dough: Melt butter. In a bowl stir together water, yeast, and sugar and let stand 5 minutes, or until foamy. In another bowl stir together flours and salt. Stir yeast mixture and melted butter into flour mixture until a dough is formed. (Dough will be soft and slightly sticky.) On a floured surface knead dough 1 minute and transfer to a lightly floured bowl, turning dough to coat it. Let dough rise, covered tightly with plastic wrap, in a warm place 45 minutes.
Line bottom of 2 buttered 9-inch round cake pans with wax or parchment paper and butter paper.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter with 3/4 cup sugar until just combined. On a large sheet of wax paper form butter mixture with a rubber spatula into a 4- by 2-inch rectangle. Chill rectangle, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm but still malleable, about 30 minutes.
On a well-floured surface roll out dough into an 8-inch square. Lay butter-sugar rectangle diagonally in center of square and roll out corners of dough until they extend 6 inches beyond butter. (Dough will form an X around butter.) Fold dough over butter to enclose it completely.
Make first "turn": Put rolling pin on dough 1/2 inch from farthest edge and press gently back and forth once, but do not roll pin over edge. Repeat process on closest edge. (This seals dough, preventing air and butter from being expelled.) Roll out dough into a 16- by 6-inch rectangle, but do not roll pin over edges. Turn dough over and brush off any excess flour. Fold top third of rectangle over center and bottom third over top, forming a rectangle about 6 by 4 inches. (Dough should resemble a folded letter.) This completes 1 "turn". Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, 20 minutes.
Arrange dough so that exposed flap of "letter" is on your right. Make 2 more "turns", chilling dough 1 hour between turns and arranging dough so that flap is on your right. Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, 1 hour. Cut dough in half and roll out each half into a 9-inch square. Trim edges to form a 9-inch round and put rounds in pans. Let dough rise, covered tightly with plastic wrap, in a warm place 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350° F.
Sprinkle each round with 1 tablespoon sugar and bake rounds in middle of oven 35 minutes, or until tops are golden. Invert pastries onto racks and turn right side up to cool slightly. Serve pastries warm.
