In a small bowl whisk together the eggs, milk, rum, and salt. Set aside.
Put the flour into the bowl of an electric mixer. Add the melted butter and mix on a low speed for 2 minutes. Add the sugar, orange zest, and the egg mixture and continue beating on a low speed until well combined, about 2 minutes.
Transfer the contents of the bowl to a lightly floured surface and knead by hand for 3 minutes. Form the dough into a ball, roll lightly in flour, and place in bowl. Cover the bowl with a kitchen towel and let the dough rest for two hours.
When the dough is rested, flour a large flat surface. Using a rolling pin, roll the dough paper- thin, as close to 1/32" thick as possible. If the dough becomes too elastic to roll, turn it over, and let itrest for a few minutes before proceeding. You may have to repeat the turning process but the dough MUST be thin. If it is too thick the oreillettes will turn into heavy puffs rather than the light-as-air crisps they are meant to be. (If your counter is not large enough, divide the dough in half and roll in 2 batches.)
Using a pizza cutter or sharp knife, cut the dough into 3" x 4" rectangles. Let the rectangles rest a few minutes while you heat the oil. Pour the oil into a large saucepan (the oil should not come more than halfway up the sides of the pan as it can bubble up dramatically during frying). Put a candy thermometer in the pan and heat the oil over a medium heat until it reaches 370°F. When the oil is 370°F, add 2 or 3 oreillettes to the pan. Adjust the heat during frying to keep the oil temperature constant. Fry each oreillette until the underside is golden, about 30 seconds to 1 minute, then flip with a tongs and fry the other side. As they are done, transfer the oreillettes to absorbent paper.
Sift confectioners' sugar abundantly over the oreillettes while they are still warm. Repeat the process with the remaining uncooked oreillettes. After one or two batches, as you become more proficient, you will be able to fry 5 or 6 oreillettes at a time. The oreillettes are best eaten right away, but once sugared and cold, they can be stored for 2 to 3 days in an airtight container.
