FOR THE TLACOYOS: Put the fresh masa or the reconstituted masa harina in a large bowl, add the lard and salt, and mix with your hands until a smooth dough forms. A little warm water may have to be added to the masa mixture to achieve the correct consistency. Divide the dough into 12 equal portions and shape each portion into a 1 1/2-inch ball. Flatten each ball lightly with your hands to form a thick tortilla about 3 inches in diameter and 1/8 inch thick, or use a tortilla press, pressing down rather lightly so the masa is 1/8 inch thick.
Press a hollow in the center of a tortilla large enough for 1 tablespoon of beans. Add the beans to the hollow and close the tortilla, forming it into a ball. Flatten the ball between your hands to form a football-shaped turnover about 5 1/2 inches long, 2 3/4 inches across at its widest part, and 1/2 inch thick. Repeat with the remaining masa balls.
Heat the oven to 200°F. Place a large, heavy skillet or a griddle over low heat. Add as many tlacoyos as will fit without crowding and cook, turning often, until the masa is cooked through and the tlacoyos are slightly charred on both sides, about 10 minutes. Lightly cover and set aside while you cook the remaining tlacoyos. (This step may be done up to a day ahead. Let cool, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate.)
FOR FRYING: Heat the lard over medium heat just until sizzling hot. Working in batches to prevent crowding, add the tlacoyos and fry on one side only, spooning the hot oil over the top until golden, 30 to 60 seconds. Using a slotted spatula, lift the tlacoyos, allowing any excess fat to drip off, and drain on absorbent paper. Keep warm on a heatproof platter in the oven until all are fried.
Drench each tlacoyo with a spoonful of the Salsa Verde Cruda . If using both salsas, spoon them on opposite ends. Sprinkle each tlacoyo with a little onion, some queso fresco, about 2 tablespoons of the cooked nopales (if using), and some cilantro and radishes (if using) and serve hot. Tlacoyos must have hungry people waiting to eat them on the spot.
