Bring cream and half and half to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk yolks and 6 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl. Gradually whisk in hot cream mixture. Return mixture to saucepan; stir over medium heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 4 minutes; do not boil. Strain custard into another bowl. Add white chocolate; whisk until melted and smooth. Chill until cold.
Toss berries, mangoes and remaining 7 tablespoons sugar in bowl; let stand 10 minutes. Puree mixture in blender. Mix puree into cold custard. Transfer custard to manufacturer's instructions. Transfer to container; freeze overnight.
Spoon small amount of ice cream into 1 cone, packing gently. Dip large ice cream scoop into hot water. Scoop large ball of ice cream onto cone, pressing gently. Stand cone in small glass; place in freezer. Repeat with remaining cones and ice cream. Freeze 2 hours.
For dipping and decorating: Place white chocolate and 1/2 cup oil in medium metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water; cool until barely lukewarm, about 5 minutes.
Working quickly and tilting bowl, dip ice cream end of cone into chocolate, turning to coat. Shake cone, allowing excess chocolate to drip into bowl.
To decorate with sprinkles or chocolate shavings, immediately sprinkle dipped cone with topping of choice. Stand cone in small glass; freeze. Repeat with remaining cones.
To decorate with tinted white chocolate dots, freeze dipped cones. Cut out three 10-inch parchment squares. Fold 1 parchment square diagonally in half, forming triangle. Twist corners of long side of triangle toward each other and roll to form tight cone. Seal outside seam with tape to secure. Repeat with remaining parchment squares.
Rewarm remaining white chocolate in bowl over simmering water, stirring occasionally. Place 1/4 cup melted white chocolate in each of 3 small bowls. Mix 3 drops red coloring into first bowl, 3 drops green coloring into second bowl and 2 drops each of red and yellow coloring into third bowl; stir to blend. Spoon each tinted chocolate into separate parchment cone; fold wide ends over to seal. Cut off tip to form 1/4-inch-wide opening. Pipe tinted dots all over white chocolate-coated cone. Stand cone in small glass; freeze.
To decorate with bittersweet chocolate, freeze dipped cones. Form parchment cone as described above. Combine bittersweet chocolate and remaining 2 teaspoons vegetable oil in small metal bowl. Set bowl over sauce pan of simmering water, stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove from over water, cool slightly. Spoon some of chocolate mixture into parchment cone and fold wide end to seal. Cut off tip of parchment cone to form 1/8-inch-wide opening. Tilt bowl slightly and dip 1 side of white chocolate-coated cone into melted dark chocolate, allowing excess to drip back into bowl. Pipe chocolate across top of cone in zigzag lines.
Stand cone in glass; freeze until chocolate sets. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Wrap each cone in plastic and freeze.)
