Butter well a 3-quart (5-inch-deep) decorative cake pan. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the cinnamon, the allspice, the nutmeg, the baking soda, the baking powder, and the salt. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Beat in the flour mixture alternately with the sour cream in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating well after each addition. In another bowl with cleaned beaters beat the egg whites until they just hold stiff peaks, fold them and the walnuts into the batter gently but thoroughly, and spoon the batter into the buttered pan, smoothing the top. Bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350°F. oven for 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, transfer it to a rack for 10 minutes, and invert it onto the rack to cool completely. The cake may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped tightly in plastic wrap.
Make the glaze: In a small bowl whisk together the sugar and the lemon juice until the glaze is smooth.
Transfer the glaze to a heavy-duty resealable plastic bag and cut a small opening with scissors in one corner of the bag. Drizzle the glaze over the cake in a circular motion and let the cake stand until the glaze is set. The cake may be glazed 6 hours in advance and kept covered loosely. Transfer the cake to a cake plate.
Make the cranberry cluster garnish: In a small heavy saucepan combine the corn syrup and the sugar, bring the mixture to a boil over moderate heat, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and boil the syrup until it is a golden caramel and registers 320°F. on a candy thermometer. While the syrup is boiling, oil lightly a 12-inch-square sheet of foil. Working quickly over the foil, with a fork stir the cranberries into the syrup, lift them out, and transfer them immediately to the foil, forming them into a cluster with the fork. Let the cluster cool completely. The cluster may be made 2 hours in advance (preferably not on a damp day) and kept in a cool, dry place.
Pry the cluster gently from the foil, arrange it on the cake plate, and garnish it with the mint sprig.
