Mix the yeast with the 1/2 cup warm water and set aside.
Sift the flour, powdered sugar, and salt into a large bowl (preferably wood). Make an indentation in the center and add the yeast mixture, melted butter, orange flower water, orange and lemon zests, and aniseeds.
Slowly stir in 1 cup of water with a wooden spoon and knead until the dough is smooth and satiny, about 10 minutes, adding more water if necessary. The dough should be quite soft. Form the dough into a ball and put back in the bowl. Cover the bowl with a cloth, and let the dough rise in a warm place for one hour.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 375°F. Place parchment paper on two baking sheets. When the dough has risen, divide it in half. (If the dough is very sticky, flour your hands.) Then divide each half into 5 equal parts, forming each piece into a ball. You will have 10 balls. Flatten the balls with your hands and place 5 on a baking sheet. With a rolling pin, roll each flattened ball into a circle about 1/2 inch thick. Rearrange the loaves if necessary so they are at least 1 inch apart.
Using a pastry wheel or sharp knife, make a 2 inch cut down the center of each piece of dough. Starting about an inch to one side of this cut, make three diagonal cuts slanting downward. Make symmetrical cuts on other side of the line. Do not cut through the edge of the circle. Repeat this process with the other 9 pieces of dough. Gently spread the cuts apart with your fingers to form irregular oval openings about 1 inch wide. They will close up a bit during cooking.
Using a pastry brush or your fingers, smear some of the egg yolk on top of each loaf, then sprinkle granulated sugar over the top. Put one batch in the refrigerator while you bake the other. Bake one batch at a time on the middle rack of the preheated oven for about 15 to 20 minutes, until golden. Five minutes before the first batch is done, remove the other from the refrigerator and let rest before baking.
Cool the loaves on a wire rack. The loaves may be eaten warm or at room temperature. To store, wrap the cooled loaves in aluminum foil. They will keep for up to 48 hours at room temperature. They may also be frozen in a plastic bag for up to one week.
