Place aniseed and fennel seeds in self-sealing plastic bag; close bag. Using mallet, pound seeds until coarsely crushed.
Place warm water in large bowl of electric mixer fitted with paddle attachment. Sprinkle yeast over and stir to blend. Let stand until yeast dissolves, about 10 minutes. Mix 1/2 cup molasses and oil into yeast mixture.
Stir 3 1/2 cups bread flour, whole grain rye flour, orange peel, salt and crushed aniseed and fennel seeds in large bowl to blend. Add to yeast mixture. Beat mixture at medium speed until firm but sticky dough forms, about 4 minutes. Turn dough out onto floured work surface; knead until smooth and elastic, adding more bread flour as necessary if dough is sticky, about 8 minutes.
Form dough into ball. Oil large bowl. Add dough to bowl, turning to coat. Cover bowl with plastic wrap, then kitchen towel. Let dough rise in warm draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 1 hour.
Sprinkle 2 baking sheets generously with cornmeal. Punch down dough. Turn dough out onto floured surface; knead 3 minutes. Divide dough into 16 equal portions. Cut each portion into 2 equal pieces. Roll each piece into 8-inch-long rope. Grasp 2 ropes at each end and twist ropes together, making about 4 turns. Pinch twisted ropes 1 inch from each end. Place twist on prepared sheet. Repeat forming of twists with remaining dough pieces. Cover with kitchen towels. Let rise in warm draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 40 minutes.
Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven; preheat to 375°F. Brush tops of rolls lightly with 2 tablespoons molasses (do not allow molasses to drip onto sheets under rolls). Sprinkle rolls with additional aniseed and fennel seeds. Bake until rolls are golden and sound hollow when tapped on bottom, switching top and bottom baking sheets halfway through baking, about 20 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool. Serve warm or at room temperature. (Can be made 2 weeks ahead. Wrap in foil and freeze. If desired, rewarm thawed wrapped rolls in 350°F oven about 10 minutes.)
