Prepare the halibut: Toast the coriander and fennel seeds in a medium frying pan over medium heat until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and crush with a mortar and pestle, or transfer to a clean spice grinder. Grind to a fine powder. Add the turmeric and cayenne. Set aside 1/4 teaspoon of the spice blend; reserve the remaining spice blend.
Lay out your halibut on a baking sheet/tray and season with salt and pepper. Brush or drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and rub the remaining spice mixture over the fish on both sides. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.
Prepare the carrots: While the fish rests, bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Meanwhile, fill another bowl with ice and water to create an ice bath. When the water boils, add the carrots and cook until crisp-tender, about 2 minutes. Transfer them to the ice bath with a slotted spoon. Pull them out after about 2 minutes and set aside.
Make the yogurt sauce: Toast the mustard seeds in a pan the same way you did with the coriander and fennel seeds. Crush or grind and stir together with yogurt, olive oil, and grated ginger. Season with salt and pepper. Transfer to a small bowl.
When the table is set, heat a large nonstick frying pan over medium-high heat. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil and heat until shimmering. Add the halibut fillets to the pan and let cook untouched until they begin to release easily from the pan, about 4 minutes. Gently flip and cook the other side until the fish is just cooked through but still slightly translucent in the center. Remove the fish to the platter.
Heat the 2 tablespoons olive oil in another large skillet over medium-low heat. Add the carrots and toss to coat. Season with salt. Add the shallot and cook until just beginning to soften but still purple, about 2 minutes. Pull from the heat and transfer the carrots to a plate or platter. Add the 1/4 teaspoon reserved spice blend to the residual oil in the pan. Spoon the flavored oil over the carrots and finish with parsley.
Serve fish and carrots on 2 pretty plates with carrots. Drizzle with yogurt sauce or serve the sauce in a small bowl alongside.
