Preheat a well-seasoned or non-stick Belgian or standard waffle iron. Preheat oven to 200°F.
In a large bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt and stir in buttermilk, butter, and eggs, stirring until smooth (batter will be thick).
Spoon batter into waffle iron, using 1/2 cup batter for a 4-inch-square Belgian waffle or 1/4 cup batter for a 4-inch-square standard waffle and spreading batter evenly, and cook according to manufacturers's instructions. Transfer waffle to a baking sheet and keep warm, uncovered, in middle of oven. Make more waffles with remaining batter in same manner.
Serve waffles with Brie sauce and hard-boiled eggs or compote. Makes about twelve 4-inch Belgian waffles or about twenty-four 4-inch standard waffles.
Make Tarragon Brie Sauce with Hard-boiled Eggs: In a small bowl stir together flour and mustard. In a heavy saucepan melt butter over moderately low heat and whisk in flour mixture until smooth. Cook roux, whisking, 3 minutes. Whisk in milk in a stream and simmer mixture, whisking occasionally, 2 minutes, or until thickened. Add wine and simmer, whisking occasionally, 1 minute.
Remove pan from heat and stir in Brie. Cook sauce over low heat, stirring constantly, until cheese is melted and sauce is smooth (do not let boil). Pour sauce through a sieve into another heavy saucepan. Sauce may be made up to this point 1 day ahead, cooled, uncovered, and chilled, its surface covered with plastic wrap. Reheat sauce over low heat, stirring, before proceeding (do not let boil). Stir into sauce lemon juice, tarragon, parsley, pepper, and salt to taste.
Cut eggs into wedges. Arrange eggs on waffles and top with sauce. Makes about 2 1/2 cups sauce.
Make Dried Fruit Compote: Peel and core apples and cut into 3/4-inch-thick wedges. In a large saucepan combine apples, sugar, dried fruit, and 1 1/4 cups cranberry-raspberry juice and bring to a boil. Simmer mixture over moderate heat 1 minute, or until apples are just tender, and remove pan from heat.
In a small bowl stir together arrowroot and remaining 1/4 cup cranberry-raspberry juice and stir into compote. Cook compote over moderately low heat, stirring gently, until liquid is thickened and clear (do not let boil). Compote may be made up to this point 1 day ahead, cooled, uncovered, and chilled, covered. Reheat compote over low heat, stirring gently, before proceeding (do not let boil). Stir lemon juice into compote and serve warm over waffles. Makes about 5 cups compote.
