For Cookies: Using electric mixer, cream butter, vanilla and lemon in bowl until light. Gradually add sugar and beat until blended. Beat in egg and yolk. Combine flour, cornstarch and cloves. Beat half of dry ingredients into butter mixture. Stir in remaining dry ingredients. Gather dough into ball (dough will be soft). Divide dough into 4 pieces; flatten each into disk. Wrap each in plastic and chill 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter heavy large nonstick cookie sheets. Roll 1 dough piece out (keep remainder refrigerated) on floured surface to thickness of 1/8 inch. Cut out star-shaped cookies using floured 3-inch star cutter. Transfer to prepared cookie sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart. Repeat rolling and cutting with second dough piece. Gather scraps and reroll, chilling dough briefly if soft. Cut out more 3-inch star cookies. Transfer to prepared cookie sheets. Chill cookies 10 minutes. Bake until edges are golden, about 10 minutes. Cool on rack.
Roll third dough piece out on lightly floured surface to thickness of 1/8 inch. Cut out star-shaped cookies using floured 3-inch star cutter. Cut smaller star out of center of each 3-inch star using 1 3/4- to 2-inch star cutter. Transfer star outlines to prepared cookie sheets using floured metal spatula as aid. Repeat rolling and cutting star outlines with fourth dough piece. Gather scraps and star centers and reroll, chilling dough briefly if soft. Cut out 3-inch stars. Cut smaller stars out of each 3-inch star. Transfer star outlines and centers to prepared cookie sheets. Chill cookies 10 minutes. Bake until edges are golden brown, about 9 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool.
For Filling: Finely chop cranberries with sugar in processor. Transfer mixture to heavy medium saucepan. Mix in preserves. Cook over medium-high heat until mixture is reduced to scant 1 cup, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes. Pour into bowl and cool.
Using metal icing spatula, spread 1 teaspoon jam filling in center of each 3-inch cookie, spreading slightly toward points of star. Lightly sift powdered sugar over star outlines. Place star outlines sugar side up over jam-topped cookies. (Can be prepared ahead. Place in single layers in airtight containers. Refrigerate up to 4 days or freeze up to 2 weeks. Let stand 10 minutes at room temperature before serving.)
