Charcoal grill method for sausages and oysters: Prepare grill for cooking with about 7 pounds of briquets. (You’ll need about 15 pounds of briquets total.)
Prick bratwursts and chorizo in several places with a fork, then grill, covered, turning occasionally, until browned and cooked through, about 10 minutes.
Scatter about 12 additional briquets over glowing coals and replace rack.
Fold burlap into a triple layer slightly smaller than grill surface and soak completely with water. Put 3 to 4 dozen oysters directly on grill rack, cover with wet burlap, and roast, without grill cover, until shells just begin to open (about 1/16 inch) or give slightly when squeezed with tongs, about 10 minutes. (If necessary, sprinkle more water over burlap to keep moist.) Serve oysters as they open, removing them with tongs, and roast any unopened oysters a few minutes longer, replacing burlap. Roast remaining oysters in 2 or 3 batches in same manner, adding about 12 more briquets between batches to keep fire hot and resoaking burlap thoroughly.
Gas grill method: Follow the charcoal grill method for sausages and oysters, or use a roasting pan and foil for oysters and follow stovetop-oven method.
Stovetop-oven method for sausages and oysters: Preheat oven to 500°F.
Heat 2 heavy ridged grill pans or skillets over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then cook sausages, turning occasionally, until browned and cooked through, 15 to 20 minutes.
Heat a 17- by 12-inch roasting pan (2 to 3 inches deep) on bottom shelf of oven until very hot. Remove from oven and quickly fill with 3 to 4 dozen oysters and 1 cup water, then cover pan tightly with heavy-duty foil. Roast oysters until shells just begin to open (about 1/16 inch) or give slightly when squeezed with tongs, about 10 minutes. Serve oysters as they open, removing them with tongs, and roast any unopened oysters a few minutes longer, covered with foil. Roast remaining oysters in 2 or 3 batches in same manner.
Steam clams while oysters roast on grill or in oven: Steam clams in beer in a 6- to 8-quart pot over moderately high heat, covered, until clams open, about 10 minutes (discard any unopened clams after 15 minutes). Transfer clams as opened to a platter. Carefully pour clam broth into cups, avoiding any sediment, for dunking clams if still sandy.
