To make the shell: In a large bowl blend together the flour, the butter, the shortening, and the salt until the mixture resembles meal. Add 4 tablespoons ice water, toss the mixture until the water is incorporated, and form the dough into a ball. Chill the dough, wrapped well and flattened slightly, for 1 hour. Roll out the dough 1/8 inch thick on a lightly floured surface, fit it into an 11-inch tart pan with a removable fluted rim, leaving a 1-inch overhang, and fold the overhang inward, pressing it against the side of the shell so the dough stands slightly above the edge of the pan. Prick the bottom of the shell lightly with a fork and chill the shell for 30 minutes. Line the shell with foil, fill the foil with the rice, and bake the shell in the lower third of a preheated oven for 20 minutes. Remove the foil and rice carefully, bake the shell for 5 to 7 minutes more, or until it is pale golden, and let it cool in the pan on a rack. (The shell may be made 1 day in advance and kept covered at room temperature).
To make the filling: In a heavy kettle cook the onions in the oil, covered, over moderately high heat, stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes. Uncover the kettle and cook the onions for moderate heat, stirring occasionally, for 1 hour, or until they are golden. Add the flour, cook the mixture, stirring, for 1 minute, and remove the kettle from the heat. Stir in 1 cup of the half-and-half and combine the mixture well. In a large bowl whisk together the eggs, the remaining 1 cup half-and-half, the Sherry Peppers Sauce, the salt, and the thyme, add the onion mixture, and combine the filling well.
Put the shell on a baking sheet, pour the filling into it, and bake the tart in the middle of a preheated 375°F. oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until it is set. Let the tart cool in the pan on a rack for 15 minutes. Serve the tart warm with the tomato basil concassé garnished with the basil sprigs.
To make the sauce: In a bowl combine well the tomatoes, the oil, the vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste and stir in the basil. (The concassé may be made 2 hours in advance and kept covered and chilled). Makes about 2 1/2 cups.
