Method—To make the Marinara Sauce: In a food processor, pulse the sun-dried tomatoes until reduced to small pieces. Add the Roma tomatoes, cherry tomatoes, garlic, salt, shallot, olive oil, maple syrup, and lemon juice and process until smooth. Add the basil, oregano, and thyme and pulse for about 4 minutes, or until the herbs are chopped.
Combine the corn and onion, spread on a dehydrator shelf, and dehydrate at 105°F for 1 hour, or until softened. (This brief drying helps to reduce the harsh flavor of the vegetables.) Set aside until needed.
Combine the mushrooms, shoyu, garlic, and 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a bowl and let stand for 20 minutes. Drain, cover, and set aside until needed.
Using a mandoline, cut the zucchini lengthwise into wide, paper-thin slices. Set aside until needed.
Just before assembling the lasagna, combine the spinach, basil, a pinch of salt, and the remaining two tablespoons olive oil in a bowl and toss to mix.
To assemble the lasagna: Line a 7 by 3 by 3-inch metal terrine mold with detachable sides with plastic wrap, allowing an overhang on the long sides. Arrange a layer of the zucchini "noodles" in the terrine, covering the bottom and the sides and allowing the noodles to overhang the rim by 2 inches. Layer on top, in the following order: a double layer of mushrooms; half of the Herb Cheese; a layer of spinach 3 leaves deep; half of the Marinara Sauce; half of the corn and onion; a sprinkle of salt and pepper; a double layer of zucchini noodles, one running horizontally and one running vertically; the remaining mushrooms in two layers, the remaining Herb Cheese, a layer of spinach 3 leaves deep, the remaining Marinara Sauce, the remaining corn and onion, a sprinkle of salt and pepper, and the remaining spinach leaves in 1 layer. Pull up on the plastic wrap to tighten the sides, then fold over the overhanging pieces of zucchini. Patch with more zucchini as needed to cover fully with a zucchini layer. Cover with the overhanging plastic wrap and press down firmly. Refrigerate for 3 hours. Detach the mold sides, remove the plastic-wrapped terrine from the mold, and tighten the plastic wrap by pulling a long edge taut. With the plastic wrap still in place, cut the terrine into 8 slices each a scant 1 inch thick. Carefully remove the plastic wrap from each slice. The layers may shift slightly, but you can easily push them back together.
To make the Corn Sauce: In a high-speed blender, combine the corn, olive oil, and water and purée until smooth. Pass through a fine-mesh sieve and season to taste with salt and pepper.
To make the salad: Combine tomatoes, lettuces, Rawmesan, lemon juice, and olive oil in a bowl and toss to mix. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Assembly— Place a slice of the terrine just below the center of each plate. Arrange one-fourth of the salad at 12 o'clock. Spoon one-fourth of the Corn Sauce to the right of the terrine slice and drizzle 2 teaspoons Basil Oil over the Corn Sauce. Top with pepper.
