For sauce: Combine first 4 ingredients in processor; blend until mixture is finely chopped. With machine running, add oil through feed tube; puree until mixture is almost smooth. Add crème fraîche; process until smooth. Transfer sauce to small bowl; season with salt and pepper. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Rewhisk before using.
For fritters: Sift flour and 1/2 teaspoon salt into medium bowl. Make well in center of flour mixture; add beer, egg yolks, 2 tablespoons olive oil, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, and lemon peel and whisk until well blended. Let batter stand at room temperature at least 1 hour and up to 2 hours. Rewhisk before continuing.
Fill large bowl with water; add remaining 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Using large knife, cut off top half of 1 artichoke, then cut off all but 3/4 inch of stem. Remove tough outer leaves until only 2 rows of tender green leaves remain in center. Using vegetable peeler, peel stem. Cut artichoke lengthwise in half. Using paring knife, cut out prickly choke in center; discard. Cut artichoke lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices; immediately place in lemon water. Repeat with remaining artichokes. Drain artichokes. Heat remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil in large skillet over medium-low heat. Add artichokes and 1/2 cup tap water to skillet; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bring to boil. Cover, reduce heat to medium, and simmer until artichokes are tender and water evaporates, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat and cool. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 hours ahead. Cover and chill.
Line large baking sheet with several layers of paper towels. Beat egg whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter, then fold in artichokes.
Pour enough canola oil into large saucepan to reach depth of 2 inches. Attach deep-fry thermometer to side of pan; heat oil to 375°F. Working in batches, drop artichoke mixture by tablespoonfuls into oil; fry until golden, turning often, about 2 minutes per batch. Using slotted spoon, transfer fritters to paper towels. Sprinkle with salt. Transfer fritters to platter; sprinkle with parsley. Garnish with lemon wedges. Serve sauce alongside.
