Oil a large marble slab or other heatproof work surface (see note, above), a bench knife (see note, above), a large knife (not serrated), and scissors. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Cut butter into bits. In a 3- or 4-quart saucepan cook maple syrup over low heat until reduced to 1/4 cup, about 10 minutes. Add sugar, corn syrup, water, salt, and baking soda and cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, until sugar is completely dissolved, about 10 minutes. Increase heat to moderate and cook mixture, without stirring, until a candy or digital thermometer registers 235°F. Add cream, butter, and extract and boil, without stirring, until thermometer registers 255°F., about 10 minutes. Remove pan from heat and immediately pour mixture onto oiled work surface. Cool mixture 2 minutes (do not touch mixture; it will be very hot).
With oiled bench knife lift and fold edges of candy toward center to form a 4- by 2-inch loaf. With bench knife continuously flip loaf over until barely cool enough to handle. With oiled hands pick up taffy. Working over work surface, pull ends of taffy loaf away from each other and bring hands together to fold in half. (Use caution because taffy will be cooler on surface than in center; it will cool and harden rapidly as it is pulled.) Release one hand and with it pick up folded end of taffy. Holding ends and working rhythmically, continue to pull and fold taffy (it will turn from a sticky mass to a golden, streaked ribbon) until it begins to feel firm and starts to harden. Put taffy down on work surface and pull into a 20-inch length. With oiled knife cut taffy into fourths. Pull and twist each fourth into an even 15-inch "rope," about 1/4 inch thick. With oiled scissors cut taffy ropes into 3/4-inch pieces and arrange in one layer, without touching, on baking sheets. Let taffy stand at room temperature until hard, about 1 hour.
Individually wrap taffy pieces in wax paper or candy wrappers or layer between sheets of parchment paper in an airtight container. Taffy keeps at cool room temperature 2 weeks.
