For crust: Combine flour, sugar, and salt in processor; blend 5 seconds. Add butter. Using on/off turns, process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Whisk egg and 1 tablespoon cream in small bowl to blend; add to flour mixture. Using on/off turns, blend until dough comes together in moist clumps, adding more cream by teaspoonfuls if dough is dry. Gather dough into ball. Shape 2/3 of dough into disk; shape remaining dough into rectangle. Wrap both dough pieces and chill at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
For filling: Combine rhubarb, sugar, and whisky in large skillet. Sauté over medium heat until sugar dissolves and syrup begins to bubble. Cover and simmer until rhubarb is almost tender, about 6 minutes. Transfer contents of skillet to strainer set over large bowl (reserve skillet). Drain rhubarb well. Return juices from bowl to same skillet. Boil over medium-high heat until juices are reduced to 3 tablespoons, about 5 minutes. Remove skillet from heat and reserve juices.
Preheat oven to 375°F. Roll out dough rectangle on lightly floured surface to 91/2-inch square; cut into 9 strips. Arrange strips on small baking sheet; chill.
Roll out dough disk on lightly floured surface to 11-inch round. Transfer to 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Trim overhang to 3/4 inch. Fold in and press sides until top edge of crust is slightly higher than pan side. Pierce crust with fork. Line with foil; fill with dried beans or pie weights. Bake crust until sides are set, about 18 minutes. Remove foil and beans. Bake until crust is pale golden, pressing with back of fork if crust bubbles, about 15 minutes longer. Cool crust 15 minutes.
Sprinkle white chocolate over crust. Top with rhubarb. Spoon juices over. Arrange 5 dough strips atop filling, spacing evenly apart. Arrange remaining strips atop filling in opposite direction, forming lattice. Seal ends of strips to crust, trimming excess dough. Brush lattice with glaze.
Bake tart until filling bubbles and lattice is golden, about 50 minutes. Cool tart slightly in pan on rack. Push up pan bottom, releasing tart. Cut tart into wedges and serve warm or at room temperature with whipped cream.
