Prepare the braised lentils with spinach through step 1.
Preheat oven to 375°F. Trim any excess fat, skin, and cartilage from the chicken pieces. Place a piece of prosciutto over each chicken breast, trimming and layering each so it covers the chicken breasts as neatly as possible. Using the back of a large knife, gently pound the prosciutto into the chicken so it adheres. Dredge the chicken breasts in flour to coat them lightly and tap off any excess flour.
Heat 2 tablespoons of the butter and the olive oil in a 12- to 14-inch skillet with an ovenproof handle until the butter is foaming. Place in the skillet as many of the chicken pieces, prosciutto side down, as will fit without touching. Cook just until they begin to brown, about 2 minutes. (Overcooking will toughen the prosciutto.) Turn the chicken and cook until the second side is golden brown, about 3 minutes. Repeat, if necessary with the remaining chicken breasts, removing the browned chicken to make room. Adjust the heat as you work so the chicken doesn't burn or stick in places.
Pour the wine into the skillet and shake gently to dislodge any brown bits that stick to the pan. Boil until reduced by half. Pour the chicken stock into the skillet and distribute the crushed tomatoes and remaining 2 tablespoons butter in between the pieces of chicken. Season lightly with salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat so the sauce is simmering, tilting the skillet to mix the sauce. Drape the sliced Fontina over the chicken pieces to cover them completely. Dot the center of each chicken breast with a small circle of tomato sauce or a small mound of crushed tomatoes and sprinkle with the grated cheese. Place the pan in the oven and bake until the chicken is cooked through, the sauce is bubbling, and the cheese is lightly browned around the edges, about 10 minutes.
While the chicken is in the oven, finish the braised lentils.
Very carefully remove the pan to the stovetop and let stand a minute or two before serving.
Spoon a mound of lentils onto the center of a warm dinner plate, Top with a chicken breast and spoon some of the sauce around the lentils.
*Ask for the prosciutto sliced slightly thicker than paper-thin. You will need six slices if each slice is roughly the same size as a chicken breast. Buy more or fewer slices as necessary.
