For white chocolate cream: Place chocolate in medium bowl. Bring cream to simmer in small saucepan. Pour hot cream over chocolate; let stand 1 minute, then whisk until melted and smooth. Cover with plastic wrap and chill until cold and thickened, at least 6 hours or overnight.
For biscuits: Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Place flour, 3 1/2 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, grated egg yolk, and salt in processor; blend to combine. Add butter; using on/off turns, process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 2/3 cup cream and process just until moist clumps begin to form. Turn dough out onto lightly floured work surface. Knead briefly just until dough comes together, about 4 turns. Roll out dough to generous 3/4-inch thickness. Using 2 1/2-inch diameter biscuit cutter or cookie cutter dipped in flour, cut out rounds. Gather dough scraps and roll out to generous 3/4-inch thickness. Cut out additional rounds, forming 6 total. Transfer to prepared baking sheet, spacing apart. Chill at least 30 minutes and up to 1 day.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375°F. Brush tops of biscuits with remaining 1 tablespoon cream; sprinkle with raw sugar. Bake biscuits until pale golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool on rack. DO AHEAD: Can be made 6 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.
For berry mixtures: Combine 1 cup blueberries, 2 tablespoons sugar, and 1 tablespoon water in medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves and berries soften and pop, about 10 minutes. Pour mixture into strainer set over bowl and press on solids to extract as much liquid as possible; discard solids in strainer. Cool blueberry mixture slightly. Add remaining 1 1/2 cups blueberries to warm sauce and toss to coat. Cool completely.
Combine sliced strawberries and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl; let stand until juices form, tossing occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Using electric mixer, beat white chocolate cream until soft peaks form.
Using serrated knife, cut biscuits horizontally in half. Place 1 bottom half on each of 6 plates. Top each with 1/4 cup blueberry mixture, then 1/4 cup strawberry mixture. Spoon large dollop of white chocolate cream over each. Cover with top halves of biscuits and serve.
* Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and at natural foods stores.
