Make the broth: In a large kettle or stockpot combine the carcass with the water, or enough to cover it, and simmer the mixture, uncovered, for 3 hours. Strain the broth through a large sieve into a large bowl, discarding the solids, return it to the kettle, and boil it until it is reduced to about 10 cups. Reserve 8 cups of the broth and transfer the remaining broth to a container for another use. The broth may be made 1 week in advance and kept covered and chilled if it is brought to a boil every 2 days and then allowed to cool to warm, uncovered, before being chilled again. The broth keeps, frozen, for 3 months.
In a small bowl let the < I>porcini soak in the hot water for 30 minutes and strain the soaking liquid through a rinsed and squeezed paper towel set over a cup, reserving it. Wash the porcini under cold water to remove any grit and chop them coarse. Trim the broccoli rabe, discarding any yellow or coarse leaves and the tough stem ends. Peel the large stems, cut off the flowerets, reserving them, and cut the stems and the leaves crosswise into 1 1/2-inch pieces. Bring the reserved 8 cups broth to a boil, add the broccoli rabe stems, leaves, and reserved flowerets, and simmer the mixture for 4 minutes, or until the broccoli rabe is just tender. Transfer the broccoli rabe with a skimmer to a bowl and keep the broth at a bare simmer.
In a large saucepan cook the onion and the porcini in the butter over moderate heat, stirring, until the onion is softened and add the rice, stirring until it is coated well with the butter. Add the wine and the reserved porcini soaking liquid and cook the mixture over moderately high heat, stirring constantly, until the liquid is absorbed. Add about 1/2 cup of the simmering broth and cook the mixture, stirring constantly, until the broth is absorbed. Continue cooking the mixture and adding the broth, about 1/2 cup at a time, stirring constantly and letting each portion be absorbed before adding the next, until the rice is tender but still al dente. (The rice should take about 20 minutes to become al dente.) Stir in the broccoli rabe and simmer the risotto, stirring, until it is heated through. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the Parmesan and salt and pepper to taste.
