Make cake: Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 350°F. Line bottoms of 6-inch-diameter, 9-inch-diameter and 12-inch-diameter cake pans with 3-inch-high sides with parchment paper. Spray parchment and sides of pans with nonstick spray.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt into large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat unsalted butter in very large bowl (at least 8-quart capacity) until smooth. Gradually add 3 cups sugar, beating until fluffy. Beat in flour mixture in 5 additions alternately with 3 1/2 cups water in 4 additions, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until medium-firm peaks form. Gradually add remaining 2 cups sugar, beating until whites are very thick and glossy, about 5 minutes. Fold 1/3 of whites into batter to lighten. Fold in remaining whites in 2 additions. Fold in chocolate pieces.
Transfer 2 1/3 cups cake batter to prepared 6-inch pan, 4 2/3 cups cake batter to 9-inch pan and remaining cake batter (about 9 cups) to 12-inch pan; spread batter evenly in pans.
Place 6- and 9-inch cake pans on top rack in oven and 12-inch cake pan on bottom rack in oven. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes for 6- and 9-inch cakes and about 55 minutes for 12-inch cake. Cool cakes in pans on racks 30 minutes. Cut around cakes; turn out onto racks. Peel off parchment paper; cool cakes completely. Slide cakes onto corresponding cardboard rounds. Wrap cakes with foil; let stand at room temperature 1 day.
Make frosting: Place white chocolate in large metal bowl; set over large saucepan of simmering water (do not let bottom of bowl touch water). Stir until chocolate is almost melted. Remove from over water; stir until chocolate is completely melted and smooth. Cool chocolate to room temperature, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in very large bowl (at least 8-quart capacity) until smooth. Gradually beat in butter. Beat in cooled white chocolate in 4 additions. Beat in vanilla and almond extracts. Add only enough gel base color in rice-size drops, beating to blend after each addition, to turn frosting pale pink.
Preliminary assembly: Using long serrated knife, cut 12-inch cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Using large tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 2 top layers, 1 at a time, to work surface, leaving bottom layer on cardboard. Spread 2/3 cup preserves over bottom cake layer, leaving 1/2-inch border at edge. Arrange 1 1/2 cups berries on their sides atop preserves, spacing apart and pressing gently to flatten. Spoon 2 cups frosting by dollops over berries. Using spatula, gently spread frosting to cover cake and berries evenly. Using tart pan bottom as aid, slide middle cake layer atop filling. Repeat layering of preserves, berries and frosting. Top with third cake layer, cut side down. Spread 2 2/3 cups frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake; refrigerate on cardboard base.
Using serrated knife, cut 9-inch cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Using tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 2 top layers, 1 at a time, to work surface. Spread 7 tablespoons preserves over bottom cake layer, leaving 1/2-inch border at edge. Arrange 1 cup berries on their sides atop preserves, spacing apart and pressing gently to flatten. Spoon 1 1/4 cups frosting by dollops over berries. Using spatula, gently spread frosting to cover cake and berries evenly. Using tart pan bottom as aid, slide middle cake layer atop filling. Repeat layering of preserves, berries and frosting. Top with third cake layer, cut side down. Spread 2 1/4 cups frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake; refrigerate on cardboard base.
Using serrated knife, cut 6-inch cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Transfer 2 top layers, 1 at a time, to work surface. Spread 3 tablespoons preserves over bottom cake layer, leaving 1/2-inch border at edge. Arrange generous 1/3 cup berries on their sides atop preserves, spacing apart and pressing gently to flatten. Spoon 1/3 cup frosting by dollops over berries. Using spatula, gently spread frosting to cover cake and berries evenly. Place middle cake layer atop filling. Repeat layering of preserves, berries and frosting. Top with third cake layer, cut side down. Spread 1 cup frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake; refrigerate on cardboard base. Transfer remaining frosting to medium metal bowl; cover and refrigerate. Chill assembled cakes until frosting is firm, about 2 hours. (Remaining frosting can be refrigerated up to 1 week.)
Make the covering with fondant: Cut each package of fondant into 8 equal 4-ounce pieces. Wrap all but 3 1/2 pieces (14 ounces) in plastic wrap and reserve for 9-inch and 12-inch cakes. Break reserved 3 1/2 pieces fondant into 1-inch pieces. Drop fondant pieces into bowl of heavy-duty mixer fitted with paddle attachment, beating until blended and malleable, about 1 minute. Remove 1 walnut-size piece of softened fondant from bowl. Dip toothpick into gel base color; smear color onto walnut-size piece of fondant. Knead briefly with hands to incorporate color evenly. Repeat, adding more color with toothpick and kneading until fondant piece is bright pink. Add 1/4-inch piece of bright pink fondant to bowl of white fondant and beat to blend well, adding more bright pink fondant by 1/4-inch pieces as necessary and blending until fondant in bowl is pale pink. Shape pale pink fondant into disk. Wrap bright pink fondant in plastic to keep soft.
Place assembled 6-inch cake on turntable. Roll out disk of pale pink fondant on sheet of parchment paper to 11-inch round. Once the fondant has been rolled out, drape it over a large rolling pin to transfer it from the work surface to the cake. Loosely roll fondant around rolling pin. Hold rolling pin over cake; release enough fondant to touch base of cake at 1 side. Unroll fondant over cake so that it drapes evenly on all sides. Gently press fondant to top of cake. Resting base of thumb and heel of same hand on top edge of cake, barely press fondant to side of cake at 1 point. Place fingertips of other hand under skirt of fondant just below that point. In a slow but continuous motion, use upper hand to mold fondant to side of cake, smoothing wrinkles and folds. At same time, use lower hand to gently support and guide skirt of fondant. Fondant should cover cake smoothly, with excess flaring at bottom like brim of top hat. Cut off excess fondant at bottom of cake. Refrigerate 6-inch cake on cardboard base.
Repeat blending and coloring with 6 pieces (24 ounces) of reserved fondant and 1/4-inch pieces of bright pink fondant. Place assembled 9-inch cake on turntable. Roll out disk of pale pink fondant on large sheet of parchment paper to 15-inch round. Follow above instructions for covering cake with fondant. Refrigerate 9-inch cake on cardboard base.
Repeat blending and coloring with 10 1/2 pieces (42 ounces) reserved fondant and 1/4-inch pieces bright pink fondant (reserve remaining fondant for another use). Place assembled 12-inch cake on turntable. Roll out disk of pale pink fondant on large sheet of parchment paper to 18-inch round. Follow above instructions for covering cake with rolled fondant. Refrigerate 12-inch cake on cardboard base. (Fondant-covered cakes can be made ahead. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate up to 3 days, or double-wrap in plastic and freeze up to 1 week. Thaw frozen wrapped cakes over-night in refrigerator.)
Final assembly and decoration: Place 12-inch cake on work surface. Insert 1 plastic straw straight down into center of cake. Using pen, mark straw 1/8 inch above fondant. Remove straw and cut with scissors at marked point. Cut 4 more straws to same length. Press 4 cut straws into cake, positioning about 3 1/2 inches in from edge and spacing evenly. Press 1 cut straw into center.
Place 9-inch cake on work surface. Insert 1 plastic straw straight down into center of cake. Mark straw 1/8 inch above fondant. Remove straw and cut at marked point. Cut 3 more straws to same length. Press 3 cut straws into cake, positioning 2 1/2 inches in from edge and spacing evenly. Press 1 cut straw into center. Place 9-inch cake on cardboard atop straws in 12-inch cake. Place 6-inch cake on cardboard atop straws in 9-inch cake.
Place bowl of remaining frosting directly over low heat for 5 seconds to soften frosting slightly. Whisk frosting to blend. Repeat warming as needed until frosting is just soft enough to pipe. Spoon some frosting into pastry bag fitted with 1/8-inch plain round tip. Pipe small dots in small repetitive triangle pattern on sides of cakes. Spoon some frosting into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch plain round tip. Pipe big dots of frosting, side by side, around base of 6-inch, 9-inch and 12-inch tiers.
Arrange flowers decoratively on cake tiers. (Fully assembled wedding cake can be completed 6 hours ahead. Let stand at cool room temperature.)
Serving: Remove top and middle cake tiers. Remove straws from middle tier. Cut top and middle tiers into slices. Remove straws from bottom tier. Starting 3 inches in from edge and cutting straight down from top to bottom, cut 6-inch-diameter circle in center of tier. Cut outer portion into slices; cut inner 6-inch portion into slices. Transfer cake slices to plates and serve.
