For cake: Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter 15 1/2x10 1/2x1-inch baking sheet. Line with waxed paper; butter and flour paper.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until mixture falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in melted butter, molasses and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, spices and salt over yolk mixture; fold in gently. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions. Spread batter evenly in prepared sheet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cut around baking sheet sides to loosen cake. Lay kitchen towel on work surface; dust with powdered sugar. Turn cake out onto towel; peel off paper. Brush cake with brandy. Starting at 1 long side, roll up warm cake together with towel jelly-roll style. Cool cake in towel.
For filling: Beat all ingredients in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Unroll cake. Spread with filling. Roll up cake only (not towel). Place seam side down on long platter and refrigerate.
For frosting: Stir brown sugar and cream in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves and mixture simmers. Place in freezer until cold, about 15 minutes. Beat butter, powdered sugar and spices in medium bowl until fluffy. Beat in cold brown sugar mixture. Spread frosting all over cake. Chill until set, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; chill.)
For caramel: Stir sugar, water and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves, occasionally brushing pan sides with wet pastry brush. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber color, swirling pan occasionally, about 5 minutes. Using teaspoon and working quickly, drizzle caramel over cake. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead; chill.)
Serve cake with fruits, if desired.
