Spoon the ricotta into a large fine-mesh sieve or a colander lined with a double thickness of cheesecloth or a basket-type coffee filter. Set the sieve over a bowl and cover the ricotta well with plastic wrap. Drain in the refrigerator at least overnight, or up to 24 hours. Discard the liquid in the bottom of the bowl.
Make the dough: Process 2 cups of granulated sugar, 4 egg yolks, and the lemon zest in the work bowl of a food processor fitted with a metal blade until all ingredients are blended. Add the butter and process, using quick on/off pulses, just until incorporated. Scrape out the dough into a mixing bowl and stir in the flour just until you have a smooth dough. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and chill for at least an hour, or up to 1 day.
Make the filling: Soak the wheat kernels in a bowl with enough water to cover by three fingers until softened, 3 to 4 hours. Drain well.
Bring the milk to a simmer in a medium saucepan. Stir in the drained wheat and 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar. Return to a gentle simmer and cook, stirring occasionally, until the wheat kernels are tender but still have some bite, about 45 minutes. (Most of the milk will have been absorbed.) Drain, and cool to room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter a 12-inch springform pan. Roll out two-thirds of the dough into a 16-inch circle about 1/4 inch thick. Lift the dough circle into the pan, pressing it gently against the bottom and sides and into the corners of the pan. Most likely the dough will tear. Don’t be alarmed, simply press the torn edges together after fitting the dough into the pan. Roll out the remaining dough on a lightly floured surface to a 12-inch circle, and slide onto a baking sheet. Refrigerate the lined pan and rolled dough until needed.
Process the remaining 2 1/4 quarter cups granulated sugar, the eggs, and egg yolks in the work bowl of a food processor fitted with the metal blade until pale yellow. Spoon in the drained ricotta and add the orange water and cinnamon. Mix, using quick on/off pulses, just until blended. Scrape the ricotta mixture into the bowl with the grain, scatter the candied fruit peel over all, and fold together with a rubber spatula until blended. Scrape the filling into the pre-prepared pastry shell.
Cut the 12-inch pastry circle into 1/2-inch strips. Make a lattice top by laying strips of the dough in alternating directions over the filling. Press the strips of dough gently to join them to the dough along the sides of the pan and pinch off any overhanging dough.
Bake until pastry is golden brown and the center feels springy when poked with a finger, about 1 1/2 hours. Remove, and cool completely before serving. The cake will keep, refrigerated, for up to a week. It will be better a day or two after baking. Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar before serving.
