Make the dough: Using a floured pastry cloth and rolling pin sleeve, or two sheets of lightly floured plastic wrap, roll the pastry 1/8 inch thick or less and large enough to cut a 13-inch circle. Use an expandable flan ring or a cardboard template and a sharp knife as a guide to cut out the circle. Transfer it to the pie pan and tuck the overhanging pastry under itself. If desired, reroll the scraps, chill, and cut out decorative designs such as leaves. (Bake them separately on a small baking sheet at 400°F for 6 to 10 minutes or until golden brown. Remove to a rack to cool.)
Cut the border into a checkerboard design or use a fork or spoon to make a flat but decorative border. Do not make a high raised border or extend it over the sides of the pan, as it will not hold up baked so close to the heat source. Refrigerate, covered with plastic wrap, for at least 1 and up to 24 hours.
Preheat the oven to 375°F at least 20 minutes before baking. Plan to bake directly on the floor of the oven, or set an oven shelf at the lowest level and place a baking stone or cookie sheet on it before preheating.
Process the gingersnaps and pecans until finely ground. Sprinkle them over the bottom of the pie crust and, using your fingers and the back of a spoon, press them into the dough to coat the entire bottom, going about 1/2 inch up the sides.
Make the pumpkin filling: In a small heavy saucepan, stir together the pumpkin, brown sugar, spices, and salt. Over medium heat, bring the mixture to a sputtering simmer, stirring constantly. Reduce the heat to low and cook, stirring constantly, for 3 to 5 minutes or until thick and shiny.
Scrape the mixture into a food processor and process for 1 minute. With the motor on, add the milk and cream, processing until incorporated. Scrape the sides of the work bowl. Add the eggs one at a time, processing just to incorporate, about 5 seconds after each addition; add the vanilla along with the last egg.
Pour the mixture into the pie shell and set it directly on the floor of the oven (or on the baking stone). Bake the pie for 50 to 60 minutes or just until a knife inserted between the sides and center comes out almost clean. The filling will have puffed and the surface dulled, except for the center. (The filling will shake like jelly when moved. This will happen before it has finished baking, so it cannot be used as a firm indication of doneness; conversely, if it does not have this jelly-like consistency, you can be sure that it is not baked adequately). If the crust appears to be darkening too much on the bottom, raise the pie to the next rack. After 30 minutes, protect the edges with a foil ring.
Place the baked pie on a rack to cool. When cool, the surface will be flat. If you have made decorative designs, place them on it now.
Variation: Mini pumpkin pielets- This filling is enough to make four 4 1/4 inch pielets. There will be about 6 tablespoons left over, which can be baked in a small custard cup in a water bath for the same time as the pielets. You will need 8 1/2 ounces of dough. Divide the dough into quarters, roll each piece of dough 1/16 inch thick and large enough to cut a 7 1/2 inch circle, and proceed as above.
Bake the pielets, preferably directly on the bottom of the oven, or on a baking stone set on the lowest shelf, in a preheated 375°F oven for 35 minutes or until they test done as above.
Store: Room temperature, up to 3 days.
Understanding: Canned pumpkin purée is more consistent in flavor and texture than homemade.
The crust border should not be too raised or extend past the pie plate because when baked so close to the heat source, and at the lower temperature required for the custard filling, a raised border would not set quickly enough and would droop over the edge and break off. Since the border does not extend past the edge, it is not necessary to shield the edges until after 30 minutes, instead of the usual 15 minutes for a one-crust pie.
Characteristic star-burst cracking is the result of overbaking. If desired, cover any crack(s), should they develop, with baked pastry cutouts.
