For crust: Preheat oven to 350°F. Blend graham cracker crumbs and sugar in processor until combined. Gradually add butter and process until moist clumps form. Press crumbs onto bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of 10-inch-diameter springform pan with removable bottom. Bake until set, about 12 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely.
For filling: Place 1/2 cup whipping cream in medium bowl; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 5 minutes. Combine 1 cup whipping cream and cream cheese in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk over medium-high heat until mixture is smooth and just beginning to simmer. Remove from heat. Add gelatin mixture; whisk to dissolve. Strain into large bowl. Let stand 45 minutes to cool.
Combine remaining 1 1/2 cups whipping cream, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla extract in another large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; reserve bean for another use. Using electric mixer, beat until mixture thickens and peaks form. Fold into cream cheese mixture in 3 additions. Transfer filling to prepared crust. Cover and chill until set, at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
For cranberry topping: Place 1 tablespoon water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 5 minutes.
Bring Port, sugar, star anise, cinnamon stick, cloves, and orange peel to boil in heavy large saucepan over high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat to medium and simmer 5 minutes. Add cranberries and simmer mixture until cranberries begin to pop, stirring occasionally, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir some of hot cranberry liquid into gelatin mixture in small bowl to melt gelatin; stir gelatin mixture into cranberry mixture in saucepan. Transfer to medium bowl; refrigerate until cold. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Just before serving, remove pan sides to release tart. Cut cheesecake tart into wedges. Spoon cranberry mixture over each wedge and serve.
* A brown star-shaped seedpod that can be found at Asian markets and specialty foods stores, as well as in the spice section of some supermarkets.
