Make dough: In bowl of a standing electric mixer with paddle attachment sprinkle yeast over water with 1/4 teaspoon sugar and let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. Add remaining sugar, flour, milk, salt, and yolks and beat on low speed until combined well. Beat in butter, a few pieces at a time, and beat on medium speed until smooth and elastic, about 5 minutes. (Dough will be soft.) Scrape dough from side of bowl and let rise, covered with plastic wrap and a kitchen towel, in a warm place 1 hour, or until doubled in bulk.
Make filling while dough is rising: In a bowl soak dried fruit in warm water to cover 15 minutes. Drain fruit, discarding water, and chop fine. In a small bowl stir together fruit and pecans.
In a small bowl stir together well sugar and cinnamon.
Grease a 13-by 9-inch baking pan.
Punch down dough and on a floured surface roll out into a 16- by 12-inch rectangle. Brush dough with melted butter, leaving an unbuttered 1/2-inch border on long sides, and sprinkle filling evenly over buttered dough. Sprinkle cinnamon sugar evenly over filling.
With a long side facing you, roll up dough jelly-roll fashion, brushing off any excess flour, and pinch long edge together firmly to seal. Cut rolled dough crosswise into 12 pieces with a sharp knife and arrange pieces, cut sides down, in pan. Let buns rise, covered loosely, in a warm place 45 to 50 minutes, or until doubled in bulk.
While buns are rising, preheat oven to 350°F.
Bake buns in middle of oven until golden, about 25 minutes. (Alternatively, buns may be made 1 week ahead: Bake buns in middle of oven until pale golden, about 15 minutes (buns will not be completely baked), and transfer pan to a rack to cool completely. Freeze buns in pan, covered tightly with foil. To serve, thaw buns at room temperature 1 hour and bake in a preheated 350°F. oven until golden, about 10 minutes). Transfer buns to a rack and cool slightly.
Make glaze while buns are cooling: In a small bowl whisk together confectioner's sugar and water until smooth. Transfer glaze to a small sealable plastic bag and snip off tip of 1 corner to make a hole for piping glaze.
Pipe glace onto cinnamon buns and let stand until set, about 15 minutes.
