In a small bowl whisk together water and yeast and let stand while combining remaining dough ingredients.
To make dough in a food processor: Pulse together flour and salt 2 or 3 times to combine. Add oil, butter, or lard and pulse until combined well, 10 to 20 times. Add yeast mixture, scraping all of it from bowl with a rubber spatula, and pulse until dough forms a ball, about 10 times. Let dough rest in processor 5 minutes. Process dough continuously 10 seconds. On a lightly floured surface knead dough just until it forms a smooth ball.
To make dough in a standing electric mixer fitted with paddle attachment: In bowl combine flour and salt and mix on low speed until combined. Add oil, butter, or lard and beat until thoroughly combined, about 3 minutes, stopping to scrape bowl and paddle as necessary. Add yeast mixture, scraping all of it from bowl with a rubber spatula, and beat on low speed until dough forms a ball, about 5 minutes. Let dough rest 5 minutes and beat on low speed 1 minute. On a lightly floured surface knead dough just until it forms a smooth ball.
To make dough by hand: In a large bowl stir together flour and salt. Add oil, butter, or lard and blend with fingertips or a pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add yeast mixture, scraping all of it from bowl with a rubber spatula, and stir until a rough dough forms. On a lightly floured surface knead dough just until it forms a smooth ball, about 5 minutes.
For rising: Put dough in a lightly greased bowl, turning to coat, and let rise, covered tightly with plastic wrap, at room temperature until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.
On lightly surface knead dough lightly to deflate and form into a ball. Grease bowl again and return dough to bowl, turning to coat. Chill dough, covered tightly with plastic wrap, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
To form and bake breadsticks: Preheat oven to 325°F. and lightly dust 3 jelly-roll pans or large baking sheets with cornmeal.
Turn dough out onto lightly floured surface, making sure dough emerges from bowl in one piece and doesn't fold. (Folded dough becomes too elastic and is difficult to form into breadsticks.) Pat dough into a 9-inch square and cut in half to form 2 rectangles. Cut each rectangle crosswise into 4 1/2- by 1/2-inch strips for a total of 36 pieces and cover with plastic wrap or kitchen towel to keep them from forming skin.
Roll and stretch each piece of dough with palms of hands to form a narrow stick 12 to 15 inches long. (If dough resists, let pieces rest, covered, 5 minutes, and they will roll and stretch easily.) Arrange breadsticks as formed on pans about 1/2 inch apart and let rest 10 minutes. Bake 2 pans of breadsticks in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching their positions halfway through baking, until breadsticks are firm, crisp, and pale golden, 20 to 30 minutes. (Third pan of breadsticks may be kept at room temperature while first 2 pans bake.) Transfer breadsticks to racks and cool. Bake remaining pan of breadsticks in middle of oven and cool. Breadsticks may be kept, loosely covered with plastic wrap or in a paper bag, at room temperature up to 1 week. If they absorb humidity and soften, recrisp in a preheated 325°F. oven about 5 minutes.
