To make Boysenberry Ice Cream: Sprinkle sugar over berries in small bowl. Let stand 45 minutes at room temperature. Puree berries in processor. Strain through sieve into large bowl, pressing on solids with back of spoon. Bring cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk yolks in bowl to blend. Gradually whisk in hot cream. Return mixture to saucepan and stir over medium-low heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 2 minutes. Strain into berry puree. Refrigerate until cold.
Place 9x13-inch baking dish in freezer. Transfer berry custard to ice cream maker and process according to manufacturer's instructions. Spread ice cream in bottom of chilled dish. Freeze.
To make Grand Marnier Ice Cream: Remove peel (orange part only) from oranges in long wide strips, using vegetable peeler. Place in heavy medium saucepan. Add 1 cup cream, half and half and sugar. Bring to boil, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat. Cover and let steep 30 minutes.
Remove peel from cream using slotted spoon and discard. Bring cream mixture to simmer. Whisk yolks in medium bowl to blend. Gradually whisk in hot cream mixture. Return mixture to saucepan and stir over medium-low heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 2 minutes. Strain into bowl. Mix in 1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel, then remaining 1 cup cream. Refrigerate until cold, about 2 hours. Mix in Grand Marnier.
Transfer custard to ice cream maker and process according to manufacturer's instructions. Spoon over boysenberry ice cream in dish; smooth top. Cover with waxed paper. Freeze until very firm, at least 6 hours or overnight.
Line 4 small cookie sheets with foil. Place in freezer for 20 minutes. Remove 1 sheet. Dip 1 1/2-inch-diameter ice cream scoop into cup of hot water. Working quickly, scoop up layered ice cream. Round off edges with index finger. Release ice cream ball onto frozen sheet. Repeat, forming 15 ice cream balls. Insert 1 toothpick into center of each ball. Return sheet to freezer. Remove second sheet from freezer. Repeat process to form 15 more ice cream balls. Return sheet to freezer. Pack remaining ice cream into container and freeze. Freeze ice cream balls until very firm, at least 6 hours or overnight. Using metal icing spatula, loosen ice cream balls from foil; refreeze.
For dipping: Melt bittersweet chocolate with 1/4 cup shortening in heavy medium saucepan over very low heat, stirring until smooth. Cool to lukewarm. Remove 1 sheet of ice cream balls and 1 foil-lined frozen sheet from freezer. Fill 1/4-cup measuring cup with melted chocolate. Working quickly, hold 1 ice cream ball by toothpick over saucepan of chocolate; pour chocolate in cup over ball, turning to coat. Allow excess chocolate to drip off. Place bonbon on foil-lined sheet. Repeat with remaining balls. Twist and turn toothpicks to loosen; remove from bonbons. Freeze. Repeat dipping process with remaining ice cream balls and frozen cookie sheet. Freeze for 30 minutes.
Melt white chocolate with remaining 1 tablespoon shortening in heavy small saucepan over very low heat, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Rewarm bittersweet chocolate to lukewarm over very low heat, stirring constantly, Remove 1 sheet of bonbons from freezer. Dip 1 bonbon halfway into white chocolate, covering one side and hole left from toothpick. Place on same frozen sheet. Repeat with 4 more bonbons. Dip spoon into melted bittersweet chocolate and quickly move from side to side over double-dipped bonbons, allowing chocolate to fall in zigzag lines. Dip another spoon into melted white chocolate and wave from side to side over 5 solid chocolate bonbons, allowing chocolate to fall in zigzag lines. Dip finger into melted bittersweet chocolate and dab over top of one of remaining bonbons on sheet, covering hole left from toothpick. Sprinkle chocolate shavings over. Repeat with remaining 4 bonbons on sheet. Return bonbons to freezer.
Remove second sheet of bonbons from freezer. Dip half of walnut into bittersweet chocolate. Place atop 1 bonbon. Repeat with 4 more walnuts and bonbons. Roll remaining 10 bonbons in bowl of cocoa powder. Brush off excess. Place on same sheet. Freeze at least 4 hours or overnight. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container.)
