Blanch the root vegetables: Place diced carrots, turnips, and parsnips in a large saucepan. Add sugar and salt and cover with cold water. Place over high heat and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to moderately high and simmer, uncovered, until tender, about 3 minutes. Drain, then immediately plunge into ice water to stop cooking. Drain again and pat dry. DO AHEAD: The root vegetables can be prepared in advance and refrigerated, in an airtight container, up to 24 hours.
Roast the lamb: Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 275°F.
Trim any excess fat from the lamb and sprinkle all sides with salt and pepper. In a large cast-iron pan or skillet over high heat, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil until smoking. Working in 3 or 4 batches (wipe the pan clean and add 1 tablespoon oil between batches), sear the lamb, turning with tongs, until golden brown on all sides, about 8 minutes per batch. Transfer as done to a large roasting pan. Add the garlic, carrots, celery, onions, rosemary, thyme, bay leaves, and lamb or beef stock. Place over high heat, using two burners, and bring to a simmer. Cover the roasting pan with foil, transfer to the oven, and roast until the meat is tender but not falling off the bone, about 2 hours.
Allow the lamb to cool in its braising liquid for about 45 minutes. Using tongs, carefully transfer the lamb to a large bowl and cover with foil to keep warm. Pour the braising liquid through a fine-mesh sieve, pressing on any solids. Discard the solids and return the braising liquid to the roasting pan. Skim any fat from the braising liquid, then place over high heat on two burners and bring to a boil. Lower the heat to moderate and simmer, uncovered, until the braising liquid is slightly reduced, about 30 minutes. Check the seasoning, then lower the heat to low, return the lamb to the roasting pan, and cook until warmed through, about 15 minutes.
While the lamb is heating, finish the root vegetables: In a medium sauté pan over moderate heat, melt the butter. Add the carrots, parsnips, and turnips, and cook, stirring occasionally until heated through, about 8 minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
To serve: Divide carrots, parsnips, and turnips among 8 plates. Arrange 1 lamb shoulder blade chop on each plate, then drizzle with reduced braising liquid and serve immediately.
