For crust: Blend flour, sugar, and sea salt in processor. Add butter to processor; using on/off turns, blend until mixture resembles coarse meal. Whisk cream and egg yolk in small bowl to blend. Add cream mixture to processor; using on/off turns, blend until moist clumps form. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic and chill 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled. Let dough soften slightly at room temperature before rolling out.
Roll out dough disk on lightly floured surface to 14-inch round. Transfer to 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Press dough firmly onto bottom and up sides of pan. Trim dough overhang, allowing 1/4 inch of dough to extend above sides of pan. Pierce crust all over with fork. Freeze until firm, 10 to 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350°F. Line crust with foil and fill with dried beans or pie weights. Bake crust until sides are set and light golden, about 35 minutes. Remove foil and beans. Continue to bake crust until golden and cooked through, about 15 minutes longer. Cool crust in pan on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
For filling: Cook butter in heavy small skillet over medium-high heat until beginning to brown, about 21/2 minutes. Add brown sugar and whipping cream and bring to boil, whisking to blend. Boil 1 minute. Transfer butterscotch to medium bowl and cool to lukewarm, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Whisk egg yolks and flour in another medium bowl to blend. Whisk in vanilla. Gradually add yolk mixture to butterscotch; whisk until filling is smooth. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and sea salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Fold whites into filling in 2 additions.
Spread 1 cup toasted pecans over bottom of crust; pour filling evenly over pecans. Sprinkle 1/4 cup pecans over.
Bake tart until filling is set in center and top is deep brown, 26 to 28 minutes. Transfer tart to rack and cool in pan at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cool completely. Cover and store at room temperature.
For scotch-spiked whipped cream: Beat cream, brown sugar, and 1 tablespoon Scotch in large bowl until soft peaks form, adding 1 more tablespoon Scotch, if desired.
Remove sides from tart pan. Cut tart into wedges and serve with Scotch-spiked whipped cream.
