Make crust: Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350°F. Butter and flour tart pan, knocking out excess flour.
Stir together all crust ingredients in a bowl with a fork until combined well, then press mixture with your fingers and the back of a spoon evenly and firmly onto bottom and up side of tart pan.
Bake crust until a shade darker, 8 to 10 minutes, then transfer to a rack and cool to room temperature, about 30 minutes.
Make filling and grill pineapple: While crust cools, whisk together sour cream, brown sugar, chiles, and zest in a small bowl until sugar is dissolved. Beat cream cheese in a bowl with an electric mixer until smooth, then add sour cream mixture and beat until combined well. Keep covered with plastic wrap until ready to use.
Prepare grill for cooking. If using a charcoal grill, open vents on bottom of grill, then light charcoal. Charcoal fire is medium-hot when you can hold your hand 5 inches above rack for 3 to 4 seconds. If using a gas grill, preheat burners on high, covered, 10 minutes, then reduce heat to moderately high.
While coals are lighting, put pineapple quarters on a cutting board, long cut sides down, and cut lengthwise into slices slightly less than 1/4 inch thick with an adjustable-blade slicer or a knife (use caution; peeled pineapple is extremely slippery). Grill pineapple in 2 batches, covered only if using a gas grill, on lightly oiled grill rack, turning over once with tongs, until tender, about 5 minutes total. (If pineapple sticks to rack, use a metal spatula to loosen before turning.) Transfer to a platter and cool to room temperature, about 15 minutes. Trim pineapple and discard core from slices.
Assemble tart: Spread filling in tart shell, then press raspberries into cream. Gently push up bottom of pan to loosen pan bottom (with crust) from side of pan, then carefully lift out tart and transfer to a work surface. Gently insert a thin wide metal spatula between crust and pan bottom, then run spatula under crust to loosen from pan. Using spatula, slide tart shell carefully onto a serving platter. Arrange pineapple decoratively over cream.
Make glaze: Melt jelly with water in a small saucepan over moderate heat, stirring until smooth, then brush glaze onto pineapple with pastry brush.
