Place zucchini, eggplant, and bell pepper each in a separate colander set in a bowl. Toss zucchini with 1 teaspoon salt. Toss eggplant with 2 teaspoons salt. Toss bell peppers with 1/2 teaspoon salt. Let vegetables drain 30 minutes, then spread each vegetable on a separate clean kitchen towel (not terry cloth) and pat dry.
Oil bottom of a 4- to 6-quart wide heavy pot using 1 tablespoon oil.
Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then sauté onions and garlic, stirring occasionally, until onions are softened and beginning to brown, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer onion mixture to a bowl.
While onions cook, peel potatoes and cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Heat 3/4 cup oil in skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then fry potatoes, stirring occasionally (potatoes will not be completely covered with oil), until just tender and pale golden, 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer potatoes using tongs or a slotted spoon to pot, keeping as much oil as possible in skillet, and spread potatoes evenly in bottom of pot. Sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/8 teaspoon pepper, then spread one third of onion mixture evenly over potatoes.
Add zucchini to skillet and fry, stirring occasionally, until pale golden, 6 to 7 minutes. Transfer with slotted spoon to pot, leaving as much oil as possible in skillet, and spread zucchini evenly. Sprinkle with 1/8 teaspoon pepper and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, then spread half of remaining onion mixture over zucchini.
Replenish oil in skillet if necessary to total about 3/4 cup and heat over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then fry eggplant in several batches (1 layer deep, without crowding), turning over once, until golden, 6 to 7 minutes per batch. (Replenish and heat oil between batches.) Transfer eggplant as cooked to pot with other vegetables using tongs, arranging them evenly, then top with remaining onion mixture.
Fry bell peppers in oil remaining in skillet, stirring occasionally, until softened and beginning to brown, about 4 minutes, then transfer to pot and sprinkle with remaining 1/4 teaspoon pepper.
Halve tomatoes crosswise, then rub cut sides of tomatoes against large holes of a box grater set over a bowl, reserving pulp and discarding skins. Spread tomato pulp evenly over bell peppers in pot. Simmer mixture, covered, until vegetables are very tender and almost melded together, 20 to 30 minutes. Remove lid and cool vegetables to warm or room temperature before serving.
