Make crust: Blend together flour, butter, shortening, and salt in a bowl with your fingertips or a pastry blender (or pulse in a food processor) just until most of mixture resembles coarse meal with some small (roughly pea-size) butter lumps. Drizzle 3 tablespoons ice water evenly over and gently stir with a fork (or pulse in food processor) until incorporated.
Gently squeeze a small handful: If dough doesn't hold together, add more ice water, 1/2 tablespoon at a time, stirring (or pulsing) until incorporated. (Do not overwork dough, or pastry will be tough.)
Turn out dough onto a work surface and divide into 4 portions. With heel of your hand, smear each portion once in a forward motion to help distribute fat. Gather dough together with scraper and press into a ball, then flatten into a disk, rotating on work surface. Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 1 hour.
Prepare filling and assemble galette: Preheat oven to 400°F.
Cut pineapple crosswise into 1/8-inch-thick slices.
Roll out dough into a 14-inch round on a lightly floured surface with a floured rolling pin. Transfer carefully to a large baking sheet without sides.
Mix semolina flour and 1 tablespoon sugar in a small bowl and sprinkle over dough, leaving a 1-inch border. Arrange pineapple slices on top of dough in overlapping concentric circles. (You will probably have a few slices left over.) Fold edge of pastry over outer row of pineapple, pleating dough to fit. Brush pastry with beaten egg, then sprinkle remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar over pastry and pineapple.
Bake and glaze galette: Bake in middle of oven until pineapple is lightly browned and pastry is golden, 55 to 60 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack.
Melt preserves with lemon juice, stirring, in a small saucepan over low heat, then pour through a fine sieve into a small bowl, pressing on solids. Discard solids and brush preserves over filling while galette is cooling.
Serve warm or at room temperature.
* Available at natural foods stores and The Baker's Catalogue (800-827-6836).
