Bring 3 1/2 cups water to boil in medium saucepan over high heat. Remove from heat. Add ancho chilies and let stand 1 hour. Drain, reserving 2/3 cup liquid. Combine chilies and reserved liquid in processor; process to smooth thick paste. Using rubber spatula, press ancho paste through strainer; discard solids in strainer. Set aside.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400°F. Arrange tomatoes in single layer in oiled 13x9-inch baking pan. Cut top 1/4 off heads of garlic; discard tops. Arrange garlic, cut side up, in single layer in small glass baking dish. Drizzle with 2 tablespoons chicken broth and oil; cover baking dish tightly with foil. Place tomatoes and garlic in oven. Roast tomatoes until softened and lightly browned, turning once, about 30 minutes. Bake garlic until tender when pierced with skewer, about 1 hour. Place tomatoes in processor and blend to smooth purée. Allow garlic to cool, then squeeze garlic cloves from skins into small bowl. Mash garlic with fork to smooth purée. (Ancho paste, tomato purée and garlic purée can be made 1 day ahead. Cover separately; chill.)
Position rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 325°F. Mix 3 tablespoons garlic purée, butter, chili powder and 1 tablespoon honey in small bowl until well blended. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Rinse turkey inside and out; pat dry. Starting at neck end, carefully slide hand between skin and breast meat to loosen skin. Spread all but 2 tablespoons garlic-chili butter under turkey skin. Rub outside of turkey with remaining garlic-chili butter. Place turkey on rack set in large roasting pan. Roast 1 hour. Combine orange juice with 2/3 cup chicken broth. Pour mixture over turkey. Continue roasting until thermometer inserted into thickest part of thigh registers 180°F, basting with pan juices every 20 minutes and adding more broth as needed if pan juices evaporate, about 3 hours longer. Transfer turkey to platter. Tent with foil to keep warm.
Add 1 cup chicken broth to pan juices and bring to boil, scraping up browned bits. Strain pan juices into heavy large saucepan; discard solids in strainer. Spoon fat off top; discard fat. Add ancho paste, tomato purée, remaining garlic purée and 5 1/2 cups Giblet Stock. Bring to boil over medium-high heat. Reduce heat to medium and simmer uncovered until slightly thickened, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Add chocolate; stir until smooth. Mix in remaining 1 tablespoon honey. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve gravy alongside turkey.
*Sold at Latin American markets, specialty foods stores and some supermarkets
