In a saucepan bring the water to a boil, stir in the couscous, 1 tablespoon of the oil, and the salt, and remove the pan from the heat. Let the couscous stand, covered, for 5 minutes. Set a rack over another saucepan of boiling water, put the saffron in a heatproof saucer on the rack, and let it steam for 3 to 4 minutes, or until it is brittle. In a blender or small food processor blend the mayonnaise, the saffron, the garlic, and lemon juice. In a non-stick skillet heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil over moderately high heat until it is hot but not smoking and in it sauté the bell peppers, stirring, until they begin to brown. Add the scallops and sauté the mixture, stirring once or twice, for 1 minute, or until the scallops are just cooked through. Remove the skillet from the heat and stir in the peas and salt and pepper to taste. In a large bowl fluff the couscous with a fork, stir in well the scallop mixture and 1/2 cup of the saffron-garlic mayonnaise, and let the filling cool.
Preheat the oven to 425°F. On a work surface arrange two 20-inch-long sheets of wax paper with the long sides overlapping slightly and facing you. Put 1 sheet of the phyllo on the wax paper, brush it with some of the butter, and sprinkle it with about 2 teaspoons of the bread crumbs. On this, layer, brush, and sprinkle 4 more sheets of the phyllo in the same manner and lay the sixth sheet of thephyllo on top.
Spread the filling in a 3-inch-wide strip, mounding it on the phyllo 4 inches above the near long side, leaving a 2-inch border at each end. Using the wax paper as a guide, lift the bottom 4 inches of the pastry over the filling, fold in the ends, and roll up the strudel tightly. Transfer the strudel carefully, seam side down, to a lightly buttered baking sheet, brush it with the remaining butter, and bake it in the lower third of the oven for 25 minutes, or until it is golden. Let the strudel cool to warm on the baking sheet on a rack. The strudel may be made 1 day in advance and kept covered loosely and chilled. Reheat the strudel in a preheated 400°F. oven for 15 minutes. Serve the strudel warm, cut into 1-inch slices with a serrated knife, with the remaining saffron-garlic mayonnaise.
