Pour 1/4 cup warm water into small bowl. Sprinkle yeast over; stir to blend. Let stand until yeast dissolves, about 10 minutes. Whisk remaining 3/4 cup warm water, lukewarm milk, 1 egg and sugar in large bowl to blend. Stir in yeast mixture. Add 3 cups flour and stir vigorously with wooden spoon until smooth thick batter forms, about 2 minutes. Cover bowl with kitchen towel; let rest 15 minutes.
Stir 2 tablespoons oil and salt into batter. Using wooden spoon, mix in enough flour, 1/2 cup at a time, to form firm and nearly smooth dough. Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Knead until dough is smooth and elastic, adding more flour if dough is too sticky, about 10 minutes. Form dough into ball.
Oil large bowl. Place dough in bowl; turn to coat with oil. Cover bowl with plastic wrap, then towel. Let dough rise in warm draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 1 hour 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, melt butter in heavy large skillet over medium heat. Add onions and sauté until tender and golden, about 15 minutes. Set aside.
Punch down dough. Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Divide dough in half. Knead each half into ball. Cover loosely with plastic wrap; let rest on floured surface 10 minutes.
Using rolling pin, roll 1 dough ball to 14-inch round. Spread half of onions over, leaving 1-inch border. Cut dough round into 8 wedges. Starting at wide end of each wedge, roll up toward point. Place rolls on ungreased heavy large baking sheet, shaping into crescents and spacing evenly. Loosely cover rolls with plastic wrap. Repeat with remaining dough ball and onions. Let rolls rise in warm draft-free area until almost doubled in volume, about 30 minutes.
Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven; preheat to 375°F.
Brush rolls with egg glaze. Sprinkle with sesame seeds. Bake until rolls are golden and sound hollow when tapped on bottom, switching top and bottom baking sheets halfway through baking, about 25 minutes. Transfer rolls to racks and cool. (Can be made 2 weeks ahead. Cool completely. Wrap in foil; freeze. If desired, rewarm thawed wrapped rolls in 350°F oven about 10 minutes.)
