Make cake: Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter 17 1/2x11 1/2x1-inch baking sheet. Line with parchment paper, allowing 1-inch overhang on all sides. Butter parchment. Mix 1/4 cup sugar, cinnamon, allspice and ginger in small bowl. Sprinkle over parchment. Place kitchen towel on work surface. Sift powdered sugar over towel.
Combine 1/2 cup sugar, 4 eggs, 3 yolks and extract in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until thick and pale yellow, about 6 minutes. Sift flour and baking powder over egg mixture; gently fold in. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites until medium-stiff peaks form. Fold whites into batter in 2 additions.
Pour batter into prepared baking sheet; spread to edges. Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Invert onto prepared towel. Peel off parchment. Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake in towel. Cool.
Make filling: Pour 2 tablespoons water into small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin over. Let soften 10 minutes.
Whisky yolks, 1/2 cup sugar, cornstarch and brown sugar in medium bowl to blend. Whisk half and half, pumpkin and vanilla in heavy medium saucepan. Bring to boil. Gradually whisk hot pumpkin mixture into yolk mixture. Return mixture to same saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until mixture boils and thicken. Remove from heat. Whisk in orange juice concentrate and orange peel.
Stir gelatin mixture over low heat just until gelatin dissolves. Remove from heat. Whisk in 1/2 cup pumpkin mixture; whisk into remaining pumpkin mixture. Chill until cold and thick, whisking occasionally, at least 6 hours. (Cake and filling can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cake with foil; store at room temperature. Keep filling chilled.)
Unroll cake. Spread filling over cake; roll up cake, enclosing filling. Arrange cake seam side down on platter.
Beat whipping cream and 1 tablespoon sugar in large bowl until stiff. Spoon cream into pastry bag fitted with large star tip. Pipe in lengthwise rows over roulade. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Chill.) Garnish platter with orange slices and mint, if desired.
