Make the cayenne dressing: In a 7-quart stainless steel bowl, whisk together the cider vinegar, lemon juice, mustard, hot sauce, cayenne pepper, and celery seeds. Add the safflower oil in a slow, steady stream while whisking to incorporate. Season with salt and pepper, and whisk to combine. Transfer 3/4 cup of the dressing to a 1-quart stainless steel bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and set aside until needed. Leave the remaining 3/4 cup uncovered in the 7-quart bowl.
Prepare the spicy garden slaw: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit.
Add the prepared green and red cabbages, carrots, red onion, green, red, and yellow bell peppers to the dressing in the 7-quart bowl. Toss to combine thoroughly. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to serve. (The slaw may be kept refrigerated in a covered, noncorrosive container for up to 2 days before serving.
Toast the peanuts on a baking sheet in the preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes, until golden brown. Set the nuts aside at room temperature until needed.
Make the biscuits: Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit
Place the flour, cornmeal, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Mix on low speed until thoroughly combined, about 30 seconds. Add the shortening and mix on low speed for 1 minute, until the shortening is "cut into" the flour mixture and resembles coarse meal. Add the corn and buttermilk, then mix on low speed until the dough begins to come together, about 30 seconds. Transfer the dough to a clean, dry, lightly floured work surface.
Roll the dough out 1/2 inch thick. (If the dough sticks to the rolling pin or work surface, use a small amount of extra flour to prevent sticking.) Cut the dough into 8 biscuits using a 2 1/2 inch biscuit cutter. Form the remaining dough into a ball and roll it out again to a thickness of 1/2 inch. Cut the dough into 4 biscuits. Transfer the biscuits to a nonstick baking sheet. Bake the biscuits on the center rack of the preheated oven for 12 minutes, rotating the baking sheet 180 degrees about halfway through the baking time, until very lightly golden brown. Remove the biscuits from the oven and set aside at room temperature while assembling the salad.
Assemble the salad: Divide and arrange the red leaf lettuce leaves on four 10- to 12-inch room-temperature plates.
Whisk the dressing in the 1-quart bowl. Dress the red leaf lettuce on each plate with 2 to 3 tablespoons of the dressing. Place an equal amount of spicy garden slaw on the center of each salad.
Sprinkle toasted peanuts on each portion of spicy garden slaw. Serve immediately accompanied by the crispy corn biscuits.
