Make pea mousse: Lightly oil terrine mold and line bottom and sides with parchment paper, then lightly oil parchment.
Cook peas in a large pot of boiling salted water until just tender, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer peas with a slotted spoon (reserve cooking water) to a bowl of ice and cold water to stop cooking. When peas are cool, drain well, then transfer to several layers of paper towels and pat dry.
Purée peas in a food processor, scraping down sides of bowl if necessary, until very smooth, about 1 minute, then force through a medium-mesh sieve into a bowl, discarding skins. Add cheese, zest, juice, salt, and pepper, stirring to combine.
Beat cream in another bowl with an electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks, then fold into pea mixture.
Spread pea mousse evenly in terrine mold and chill.
Make corn mousse while pea mousse chills: Return cooking water to a boil, then add corn and cook until very tender, about 6 minutes.
While corn cooks, put milk in a medium bowl and sprinkle with gelatin, then let soften 1 minute. Add salt and pepper.
Drain corn in cleaned medium-mesh sieve, then transfer to several layers of fresh paper towels and pat dry. Pulse in cleaned food processor, scraping down sides of bowl if necessary, until very smooth, about 1 minute.
Force warm puréed corn through sieve with a large rubber spatula into milk mixture, discarding skins, and stir to combine. (Heat from corn will dissolve gelatin.) Cool to room temperature, about 20 minutes.
Beat cream in another bowl with electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks, then fold into corn mixture along with basil.
Spread corn mousse on top of pea mousse in terrine mold and chill, its surface covered with lightly oiled parchment (oiled side down), until softly set (terrine will not be firm), at least 4 hours.
Unmold terrine and make salad: Remove top layer of parchment and invert a platter on top of terrine mold. Invert mousse onto platter and carefully remove parchment.
Toss tomatoes with oil, vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. Just before serving, spoon tomato salad around terrine.
