Step 1: Mixing the Batter In a small bowl, sprinkle the yeast, a pinch of the brown sugar, and the ginger over the warm water. Stir to dissolve and let stand until foamy, about 10 minutes.
To make by hand: Combine the milk, the remaining sugar, salt, oil or butter, and 1 1/2 cups of the flour in a large bowl. Beat vigorously with a balloon whisk or dough whisk, at least 40 strokes by hand, until thick and sticky. Add the yeast mixture and beat vigorously for 1 minute more. Continue to add the remaining flour gradually, 1/2 cup at a time, then beat vigorously another 100 strokes, about 2 minutes. The batter will stay sticky. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spatula.
To make by mixer: Combine the milk, the remaining sugar, salt, oil or butter, and 1 1/2 cups of the flour in the bowl of a heavy-duty electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Beat for 1 minute on medium speed, or until thick and sticky. Add the yeast mixture and beat for 1 minute more. Continue to add the remaining flour on low speed, 1/2 cup at a time, then beat vigorously about 2 minutes on medium speed. The batter will stay sticky. Scrape down the sides with a spatula.
Step 2: Panning and Rising Generously grease the bottom and sides of the coffee cans or glass baking canisters. Divide the batter evenly between the 2 molds, filling one-half to two-thirds full. Use a spatula to push the batter into the corners and smooth the top with flour-dusted fingers. Cover loosely with plastic wrap lightly greased with vegetable oil cooking spray and let rise at room temperature until double in bulk, about 45 minutes to 1 hour; the batter should be even with the rim of the pan and slightly lift up the plastic wrap. Do not let the dough rise more than double (overrisen loaves collapse during baking). If the batter overrises, scrape it into a bowl, beat vigorously about 20 strokes, then return it to the pan and begin the rising again.
Step 3: Baking, Cooling and Storage About 20 minutes before baking, place the oven rack in the lower part of the oven and preheat the oven to 350° (325° if using glass molds).
Bake until the top is crusty and dark brown, the bread sounds hollow when tapped, and a cake tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. An instant-read thermometer should read 200 degrees. The crown will dome about 3 to 4 inches above the rim of the mold. Cool in the molds for 5 minutes. Turn the mold on its side and slide the loaves out onto a rack to cool on their sides for at least 2 hours. Serve slightly warm, sliced into thick rounds or cut into long wedges, with lots of butter.
Store wrapped in a plastic food storage bag at room temperature for up to 3 days or in the freezer for up to 2 months.
