Make the terrine: In a small bowl combine the bread, 1/4 cup of the cream, and the egg white. In a large skillet cook the garlic and the onion in 2 tablespoons of the butter over moderately low heat, stirring, until the onion is softened, add the white mushrooms, and cook the mixture over moderate heat, stirring, for 5 minutes, or until the mushrooms are softened and begin to give off their liquid. Add 2 tablespoons of the Cognac and cook the mixture, stirring, until all the liquid has evaporated. Let the mixture cool, transfer it to a food processor, and purée it with the bread mixture. Add the veal, the remaining 1/4 cup cream, and salt and pepper to taste and blend the mixture, scraping down the sides, until it is smooth. Transfer the veal mixture to a bowl and keep it covered and chilled while cooking with wild mushrooms. In the skillet, cleaned, cook the shallots with salt and pepper to taste in the remaining 2 tablespoons butter over moderately low heat, stirring, until they are softened, add the wild mushrooms, and cook the mixture over moderate heat, stirring, for 2 minutes. Add the broth, the wine, and the remaining 2 tablespoons Cognac and boil the mixture, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until all the liquid has evaporated. let the mixture cool, stir in into the veal mixture, and spoon the mixture into a well-buttered 1-quart terrine, smoothing the top. Cover the terrine with a buttered sheet of foil and the lid, put the terrine in a baking pan, and add enough hot water to the pan to reach halfway up the sides of the terrine. Bake the terrine in the middle of a preheated 350°F. oven for 1 hour to 15 minutes, or until a meat thermometer registers 165°F. Let the terrine cool and pour off any excess liquid. Invert the terrine onto a plate and chill it, covered, overnight.
Make the coulis: In a blender blend together the roasted peppers, the oil, the vinegars, and salt and black pepper to taste until the mixture is smooth.
Cut the terrine into 1/2-inch-thick slices and pour about 1/4 cup of the coulis onto each of 8 serving plates. Put a slice of terrine over the coulis and sprinkle each serving with some of the diced bell peppers and the chives.
To roast peppers: Using a long-handled fork char peppers over an open flame, turning them, until skins are blackened, 2 to 3 minutes. (Alternatively, broil peppers on rack of a broiler pan under a preheated broiler about 2 inches from heat, turning them every 5 minutes, until skins are blistered and charred, 15 to 25 minutes.) Transfer peppers to a bowl and let stand, covered, until cool enough to handle. Keeping peppers whole, peel them, starting at blossom end. Cut off tops and discard seeds and ribs. (Wear rubber gloves when handling chilies.)
