Make pasta dough: Blend all dough ingredients in a food processor until mixture just begins to form a ball, 1 to 2 minutes. Knead dough on a lightly floured surface, incorporating only as much additional flour as necessary to keep dough from sticking, until smooth, 6 to 8 minutes (dough will be stiff but will soften as it rests). Wrap dough in plastic wrap and let rest at room temperature 1 hour.
Make filling: Stir together squash, yolks, crumbs, 2/3 cup cheese, and pepper until combined well. Chill filling until ready to use.
Roll and cut pasta: Set smooth rollers of pasta machine on widest setting. Divide dough into 4 pieces, then flatten each piece into a rectangle. Cover rectangles with plastic wrap.
Dust 1 rectangle with flour and feed it through rollers 8 or 9 times, folding it in half and rotating dough a quarter turn each time and dusting it with flour if necessary to prevent it from sticking.
Turn dial to next (narrower) setting and feed dough through once without folding, then continue to feed dough through machine, making space between rollers narrower each time and dusting with flour if dough begins to stick, until narrowest setting is reached. Catch pasta with your hand as it feeds through rollers instead of letting it crumple at base of machine. Pasta should be a long, smooth sheet, about 18 inches long and 4 inches wide. Keep covered with clean kitchen towels. Roll out remaining pieces of dough, 1 piece at a time.
Form tortelli: Cut each pasta sheet into 4 (4-inch) squares.
Spoon 1 1/2 tablespoons filling in center of 1 square, then brush water around edges. Lift 2 opposite corners together to form a triangle and enclose filling, pressing edges firmly around mound of filling to eliminate air pockets and seal. (If tortelli are not sealed properly, filling will seep out during cooking.) Moisten opposite corners of long side. Curl moistened corners toward each other, overlapping one on top of the other, and carefully press corners together to seal. Make more tortelli in same manner. (You will have a little filling left over.)
Arrange tortelli in 1 layer in a well-floured shallow baking pan, covered with kitchen towels, and let dry, about 30 minutes. Brush off any excess flour with a pastry brush before cooking.
Make broth and cook tortelli: Bring stock to a boil in a 3- to 4-quart saucepan, then add half of tortelli and simmer, uncovered, stirring gently to separate, until pasta is tender, 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer with a slotted spoon to a bowl and cook remaining tortelli in same manner, transferring as cooked to bowl.
While second batch of tortelli is cooking, heat oil in a small skillet over moderately low heat and cook almonds, stirring frequently, until golden, about 4 minutes. Divide tortelli and some broth among 4 soup plates and top with almonds, including oil, and remaining cheese.
*Available at Italian markets and specialty foods shops.
