Preheat oven to 350°F. and butter and flour two 8- or 9-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
Make meringue layers: In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites until they hold soft peaks. Add sugar in a slow stream, beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in almonds and sift flour over meringue. Fold in flour gently but thoroughly and divide meringue between cake pans, smoothing it evenly. Bake layers in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until pale golden and firm to the touch. Invert layers onto racks and cool.
Make praline: Line a baking sheet with foil.
In a dry heavy saucepan cook sugar over moderate heat, stirring with a fork, until melted and cook, without stirring, swirling pan, until a golden caramel. Remove pan from heat and stir in almonds and hazelnuts. Immediately pour mixture onto baking sheet tilting baking sheet to make a thin layer and cool completely. Break praline into pieces and transfer to a plastic bag. Crush praline coarse with a rolling pin. Praline may be made 1 week ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.
Make buttercream: In a small heavy saucepan simmer milk, sugar, and vanilla bean if using, stirring, until sugar is dissolved. In a bowl whisk yolks and add milk mixture in a stream, whisking. Transfer mixture to pan and cook over low heat, stirring, until a candy thermometer registers 170°F. Pour mixture through a fine sieve into another bowl and cool completely. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter until light and fluffy and beat in custard, a little at a time, until smooth. Beat in 1/2 cup praline (reserving remaining praline for another use) and vanilla extract if using.
Assemble torte: Stack meringue layers, spreading some buttercream generously between them. Spread remaining buttercream on top and side of torte. Press chopped toasted almonds onto top and side of torte and sprinkle top with confectioners' sugar. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Let torte stand at cool room temperature 2 hours before serving.
