For crust: Whisk flour, almond flour, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk egg yolks and 2 tablespoons whipping cream in small bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter, powdered sugar, and lemon peel in large bowl until well blended; beat in yolk mixture. Beat in flour mixture just until incorporated. Transfer dough to lightly floured surface (dough will be slightly sticky). Divide dough into 2 pieces, 1 slightly larger than the other. Using floured hands, gather each piece together; shape each into disk. Wrap dough disks separately in plastic and chill at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Soften dough slightly at room temperature before rolling out. Roll out larger dough disk on floured parchment paper to 9-inch round. Transfer crust to 10-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Using fingertips, press crust evenly over bottom and up sides of pan. Chill crust until firm, at least 20 minutes. Roll out second dough disk on floured parchment paper to 10-inch round. Transfer dough, still on parchment, to baking sheet. Using fluted pastry wheel, cut dough round into ten to twelve 1/2-inch-wide strips. Chill strips until firm, about 15 minutes or up to 1 day.
Roll out larger dough disk on floured parchment paper to 9-inch round. Transfer crust to 10-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Using fingertips, press crust evenly over bottom and up sides of pan. Chill crust until firm, at least 20 minutes. Roll out second dough disk on floured parchment paper to 10-inch round. Transfer dough, still on parchment, to baking sheet. Using fluted pastry wheel, cut dough round into ten to twelve 1/2-inch-wide strips. Chill strips until firm, about 15 minutes or up to 1 day.
For filling: Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350°F. Whisk flour, baking powder, cloves, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Combine almond paste and sugar in processor; blend until mixture resembles fine sand, about 1 minute. Transfer almond-paste mixture to another medium bowl; add butter and beat until blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until smooth after each addition. Add flour mixture and beat just until blended.
Spread 3/4 cup marmalade evenly over bottom of chilled unbaked crust. Spoon almond filling atop marmalade; spread evenly to cover marmalade. Using metal spatula, carefully transfer 5 to 6 dough strips, 1 strip at a time, to torte and place atop almond filling, spacing evenly (dough will be fragile). Form lattice by arranging remaining 5 to 6 dough strips at right angles to first strips. Trim dough strips even with crust edges; pinch lightly to seal.
Bake torte until filling is deep golden brown and crust is golden, about 50 minutes (almond filling will puff up between lattice strips during baking). Transfer torte to rack and let cool completely in pan.
Bring remaining 1/2 cup orange marmalade and 1 tablespoon water to boil in small saucepan, stirring often. Simmer 1 minute. Pour mixture through strainer into small bowl, pressing on solids to extract liquid; discard solids in strainer. Brush marmalade liquid over top of torte for glaze. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome or wrap loosely in foil; store at room temperature.
For grand marnier cream: Using electric mixer, beat all ingredients in medium bowl until soft peaks form. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 hours ahead. Cover and chill. Rewhisk to thicken slightly, if necessary, before using. Remove pan sides from torte. Transfer torte to platter. Serve with Grand Marnier whipped cream.
* Sometimes labeled "ground almonds"; available at specialty foods stores and natural foods stores.
**Available in the baking aisle of most supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.
