For crepes: Combine all ingredients in blender and blend until smooth. DO AHEAD Crepe batter can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Reblend before using.
Line plate with paper towel or parchment paper. Heat 9-inch-diameter nonstick skillet with 7-inch-diameter bottom over medium heat. Add 2 tablespoons batter to skillet; tilt and rotate skillet to spread batter evenly over bottom. Cook until center of crepe is cooked through and edges are lightly browned, about 1 minute. Run spatula around crepe and invert onto prepared paper-towel-lined plate. Repeat with remaining batter, placing paper towel or parchment paper between crepes, making at least 18 crepes. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.
For calvados butter sauce: Using electric mixer, beat butter in medium bowl until well blended. Add sugar and coarse salt; beat until fluffy. Gradually beat in Calvados just until incorporated. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.
For apples: Melt butter in heavy large skillet over medium heat. Add apples; sprinkle with sugar, coarse salt, and cinnamon. Sauté until apples are tender, about 3 minutes. Add Calvados and cook until most of liquid evaporates, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat. DO AHEAD Can be made 2 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 300°F. Place crepe stack (with paper towels between crepes) on rimmed baking sheet. Cover baking sheet with foil and seal at edges; warm in oven until crepes are heated through, about 20 minutes for cold crepes and 15 minutes for room-temperature crepes.
Stir Calvados butter sauce in small saucepan over medium-low heat until melted and heated through. Rewarm apple mixture over medium heat, stirring occasionally, about 3 minutes. Place 1 crepe on plate, browned side down. Spoon 2 teaspoons Calvados sauce over crepe, then fold crepe into quarters. Repeat with remaining crepes and Calvados butter sauce, placing 3 crepes on each plate. Spoon apples over crepes on each. Spoon any remaining sauce over crepes and serve.
