In a saucepan of boiling salted water cook shrimp until just cooked through, 1 to 2 minutes, and drain. Let shrimp cool and cut into 1/4-inch pieces.
In a small bowl toss carrot with scallion greens, vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste.
Fill a small shallow baking pan or cake pan with warm water. Working with 4 sheets rice paper at a time, immerse them in water and let stand until very pliable, about 45 seconds. Carefully arrange soaked sheets in a single layer on paper towels to drain. Working with 1 soaked sheet at a time and keeping remaining sheets covered with dampened paper towels, put sheet on a clean dry work surface and arrange about 1 tablespoon coriander leaves in a horizontal line across bottom, leaving a 1-inch border on bottom edge and on each side. Top coriander with about 2 tablespoons shrimp pieces and top shrimp with about 1 tablespoon carrot mixture. Sprinkle about 1 tablespoon lettuce, about 1 tablespoon sprouts, and salt and pepper to taste over carrot mixture. Roll up filling tightly in sheet, folding in 2 sides of sheet to completely enclose filling, and continue rolling.
Make more spring rolls in same manner with remaining 3 soaked sheets. Transfer assembled rolls to a tray and cover with dampened paper towels. Repeat procedure with remaining 8 rice paper sheets and filling ingredients. Tightly cover tray with plastic wrap (keeping dampened paper towels directly on spring rolls). Spring rolls may be made 6 hours ahead and chilled.
Just before serving, with a serrated knife cut spring rolls in half diagonally. Arrange spring rolls on a platter and garnish with coriander sprigs. Serve spring rolls with cashew dipping sauce.
To make cashew dipping sauce: In a food processor blend cashews with oil, scraping down sides, until mixture forms a paste. Add remaining ingredients and salt and pepper to taste and blend until smooth. Dipping sauce may be made 4 days ahead and kept chilled, covered. Return dipping sauce to room temperature before serving. Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
