1. Combine chapati flour and all-purpose flour (or whole wheat flour and all-purpose flour) with salt in a bowl. Rub 2 tablespoons of oil into it. Add water, fast at first, to moisten the flour so it adheres into a mass; then slowly, little by little, until the dough is formed and can be kneaded.
2. Place the dough on the work surface, brush your fingers and knuckles with the remaining teaspoon of oil (this will prevent the dough from sticking to your hand), and knead for 10 minutes or until you have a soft and pliable dough that is smooth and silky in appearance. Note from Epicurious: According to Sahni, the dough can be mixed and kneaded in a food processor without a sacrifice in quality. For instructions, see the Tips, below.
3. Cover the bowl with a sheet of plastic wrap or a moist towel, and let it rest for 1/2 hour. (The dough may be made a day ahead and refrigerated, tightly covered. Remove from refrigerator about 30 minutes before you are ready to roll.)
4. Put the flour for dusting in a plate, and keep it close to the work surface where the dough is to be rolled.
5. Knead the dough again for a minute, and divide into 2 equal portions. With your hands, roll each portion into a rope, and cut each rope into 8 equal portions or pinch off small pieces of dough and roll them into 1-inch balls). Roll the small pieces into smooth balls, dust them lightly with flour to prevent their sticking to each other, and put them back into the bowl. Keep the balls covered loosely with a damp towel or a sheet of plastic wrap to prevent their drying out.
6. Working one at a time, place a ball, generously dusted with flour, on the work surface, and roll it into a 5-inch circle, pressing and stretching it with the rolling pin. Dust the dough from time to time to keep it from sticking to the work surface or rolling pin. (All the breads may be rolled ahead of time and kept covered with a sheet of plastic wrap or a moist towel until you are ready to fry them.)
7. While the last few breads are being rolled, start heating the oil in a kadhai, chicken fryer, or a deep saucepan that can be used as a fryer. When the oil is very hot and begins to smoke (400°F), drop one bread at a time into the oil. The bread will sink to the bottom. Immediately hold a slotted spoon flat over the bread, as though keeping it from rising, but not quite touching the bread. As the bread begins to sizzle and rise to the surface (about 3-5 seconds), press the bread very gently, as though patting it, for 2-3 seconds. This will puff the bread. Once the bread begins to puff up, be careful not to press the puffed part too hard, or the bread will break and oil will seep in. Let the bread cook until it stops sizzling and the underside is slightly brown. The entire process of puffing and cooking the first side should take about 15 seconds. Gently flip the bread, and let the other side cook about 15 seconds. Take it out, and drain it briefly on kitchen towels. Repeat with the rest of the rolled bread the same way. Serve immediately; or deflate them by placing them on the work surface and pressing gently, and put them in a covered dish or wrap in foil. Just before serving, warm them in a 300°F preheated oven for 15-20 minutes.
Poori can be served with practically all vegetarian main dishes, all side dishes, and those meat and chicken dishes that have reddish-brown sauces. Poori is traditionally served with Tari Aloo (potatoes in fragrant gravy) in Aloo-Poori, or with Keema Matar (ground beef and chickpeas in cashew nut sauce) in Keema-Poori, a combination generally served for Sunday brunch. You can also serve these combinations at picnics and barbecue parties for an unusual yet delicious flavor. For such occasions, make the pooris ahead, deflate, and wrap them lightly in foil. Just before serving, place them, still wrapped in foil, near the charcoal grill or barbecue pit to heat them slightly.
