Prepare vegetables: Cut artichoke bottoms crosswise into 3/8-inch-thick slices, then cut stems diagonally into 3/8-inch-thick slices. Transfer slices to a 1 1/2- to 2-quart baking dish and set aside.
Cook haricots verts in a 3- to 4-quart pot of boiling salted water, uncovered, until crisp-tender, about 4 minutes. Drain in a sieve and transfer to a bowl of ice and cold water to stop cooking. Drain and pat dry, then toss with artichokes in baking dish. Cut a 1-inch chunk from spiced butter log, then cut chunk into bits. Dot vegetables with butter, then cover with plastic wrap and set aside until ready to bake.
Cook steaks and vegetables: Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350°F.
Heat an 8- to 9-inch heavy skillet (not nonstick) over moderately high heat 2 minutes. While skillet is heating, pat steaks dry and sprinkle all over with salt and pepper.
Add oil to skillet, swirling to coat, then sear steaks on one side, without moving, until a deep brown crust forms, about 3 1/2 minutes. Turn steaks over and sear 3 1/2 minutes more. Using tongs, brown edges of steaks briefly (less than 1 minute total), then transfer to a small baking dish, reserving skillet. Cook steaks in oven until thermometer inserted horizontally into center of steaks registers 125°F for medium-rare, 12 to 18 minutes.
Before steaks are finished, add vegetables to oven and bake, uncovered, until butter is melted and vegetables are heated through, 10 to 15 minutes.
Just before serving: Remove steaks from oven and top each with a 1/4-inch-thick slice of spiced butter. Let stand in baking dish, loosely covered with foil, 5 to 10 minutes.
While steaks stand, add wine to skillet and deglaze by boiling, stirring and scraping up brown bits, until reduced to about 1 tablespoon, about 5 minutes. Stir in demi-glace and any juices from baking dish and bring to a boil over moderately high heat. Cut remaining butter into pieces and add to skillet 1 at a time, swirling skillet until each piece is incorporated and sauce is thick and creamy.
Divide vegetables and steaks between plates. Pour sauce over each serving.
