For sweet pork: Heat 1/2 cup vegetable oil in small saucepan over high heat. Add shallots and cook until golden brown and crisp, about 10 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer fried shallots to paper towels to drain.
Grind peppercorns and star anise to powder in spice grinder. Transfer ground spices to mini processor. Add cilantro stems, garlic, and ginger; grind to paste. Set spice paste aside.
Place pork in medium bowl. Place bowl on steamer rack in pot. Cover pot and steam pork over high heat until tender, about 20 minutes. Cool; cut into 1/2-inch pieces.
Heat remaining 1/4 cup oil in heavy large skillet over medium heat. Add steamed pork and sauté until crisp, about 10 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer pork to clean bowl.
Pour off all but 2 tablespoons fat from skillet and add spice paste. Cook over medium-high heat until beginning to brown and crisp, about 2 minutes. Mix in palm sugar, then 1/3 cup water and fish sauce. Stir until palm sugar melts and caramelizes, about 5 minutes. Add remaining 1/3 cup water and boil until sauce thickens and coats spoon, stirring occasionally, about 5 minutes. Mix in pork. do ahead Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate pork. Cover shallots and store at room temperature. Add shallots to pork and warm over medium heat before using.
For salad and dressing: Blend lime juice, cilantro stems, fish sauce, palm sugar, bird chiles, and garlic in blender until smooth. Season dressing to taste with salt. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.
Combine mango, herbs, jalapeño chile, lime leaves, and ginger in medium bowl. Toss with enough dressing to coat.
For trout: Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in each of 2 large skillets over high heat. Open trout like book. Sprinkle each with salt and pepper. Add 1 to each skillet, skin side up. Cook until browned and cooked through, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Transfer trout to platter, skin side down. Spoon warm pork and shallot mixture over each;top each with half of salad.
More info: This recipe calls for green mango, which is an under-ripe mango, rather than a specific variety. When shopping for green mangoes, choose fruit that is firm to the touch.
What to drink: With this menu, try a bottle of Riesling. We particularly like the Smith-Madrone 2007 Riesling from Napa Valley ($25). The mango, pineapple, and citrus flavors of the wine are the perfect complement to this meal. While you're at the market, look for a Thai beer like Singha, which is produced by Thailand's first and largest brewery.
