1. Pound the lamb pieces lightly with a heavy-bladed knife to tenderize, and make shallow incisions in them. Place the lamb in a large glass or Pyrex bowl.
2. Add the onion, garlic, salt, pepper, lime juice, and saffron water and mix well. Cover and marinate for at least 24 and up to 72 hours in the refrigerator. Turn the meat twice during this time.
3. Start a bed of charcoal at least 30 minutes before you want to cook and let it burn until the coals glow. You can use a hair dryer to accelerate this process.
4. Meanwhile, thread 5 or 6 pieces of meat onto each skewer, leaving a few inches free on both ends. Spear tomatoes onto separate skewers.
5. For basting, combine the butter, lime juice, saffron water, salt, and pepper in a small saucepan. Keep warm over very low heat.
6. When the coals are glowing, place the tomatoes on the grill; then 1 minute later place the skewered meat on the grill. Grill for 3 to 4 minutes on each side, turning frequently, and basting occasionally. The total cooking time should be 6 to 10 minutes. The meat should be seared on the outside, pink and juicy on the inside.
7. Spread lavash bread on a serving platter. When the meat is done, steady it with a piece of lavash bread while you pull it off the skewer. Brush with the basting mixture, garnish with grilled tomatoes, and cover with lavash bread to keep the food warm.
8. Serve immediately with saffron steamed rice , lavash bread, and fresh scallions and basil. NUSH-E JAN!
Najmieh Batmanglij shares her tips with Epicurious: •Though many Iranians now use vegetable oil, clarified butter (ghee) is Iran's traditional cooking fat. To make it, start with a third more unsalted butter than you will need for the recipe. Melt the butter over low heat, then increase the heat to medium low and simmer the butter, without stirring, until it stops crackling and the milk solids brown and drop to the bottom. Skim off any foam from the top, and strain the ghee through a colander lined with cheesecloth. Ghee will keep at room temperature, covered, for several months. •Batmanglij recommends buying saffron in thread form rather than powder, which is often adulterated with turmeric. Before they can be used in a recipe, the threads must be ground with a cube of sugar, using a mortar and pestle or spice grinder, and then diluted in hot water. "The saffron water can then be stored and used as needed," says Batmanglij. "Never use the unground threads." •Though wood or charcoal will impart the most authentic, smoky flavor, this dish can also be prepared using a gas grill or a broiler. •Although flat, 1/8-inch-wide skewers are traditional (the swordlike shape prevents the meat from turning as you cook it), any grilling skewers can be used. •Lavash is a thin flatbread sold in Middle Eastern groceries. "Look for lavash that's soft, but not doughy," says Batmanglij. She also recommends Persian pickles, called torshis and available at www.sadaf.com, to accompany this dish. Batmanglij recommends buying saffron in thread form rather than powder, which is often adulterated with turmeric. Before they can be used in a recipe, the threads must be ground with a cube of sugar, using a mortar and pestle or spice grinder, and then diluted in hot water. "The saffron water can then be stored and used as needed," says Batmanglij. "Never use the unground threads." •Though wood or charcoal will impart the most authentic, smoky flavor, this dish can also be prepared using a gas grill or a broiler. •Although flat, 1/8-inch-wide skewers are traditional (the swordlike shape prevents the meat from turning as you cook it), any grilling skewers can be used. •Lavash is a thin flatbread sold in Middle Eastern groceries. "Look for lavash that's soft, but not doughy," says Batmanglij. She also recommends Persian pickles, called torshis and available at www.sadaf.com, to accompany this dish.
