Strain syrup from Morello cherries into measuring cup. Combine drained Morello cherries, 1/4 cup of strained Morello syrup, and cornstarch in medium bowl; stir to blend. Combine remaining strained Morello syrup, dried cherries, cinnamon, nutmeg, and star anise in heavy large saucepan. Cover and simmer over medium-low heat until cherries are plump, about 10 minutes. Uncover, increase heat to medium, and simmer until mixture bubbles thickly and is reduced to 3/4 cup, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes longer. Discard cinnamon stick, nutmeg, and star anise. Add Bing cherries and sugar and stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves; increase heat to medium and simmer until fresh cherries are tender when pierced with sharp knife, about 5 minutes. Add Morello cherry mixture and stir over medium heat until mixture bubbles and thickens, about 3 minutes. Transfer pie filling to medium bowl and cool completely. DO AHEAD Can be made 4 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.
Position rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 400°F. Roll out 1 pie crust disk on floured surface to 12-inch round. Transfer to 9-inch-diameter glass pie dish. Trim dough overhang to 1 inch. Spoon cooled filling into crust. Roll out second pie crust disk on lightly floured surface to 13x10-inch rectangle. Cut dough rectangle lengthwise into 3/4-inch-wide strips. Arrange 5 dough strips across cherry filling in 1 direction and 5 strips in opposite direction, forming lattice and spacing evenly, weaving if desired. Brush bottom crust edge lightly with cream and press dough strips to crust to seal. Trim any overhang from dough strips. Turn dough edge of bottom crust up over dough strips, pinching gently to seal. Crimp edges decoratively. Brush edges and lattice lightly with whipping cream.
Place pie on rimmed baking sheet and bake until crust is golden brown and filling bubbles thickly, about 50 minutes. Transfer pie to rack and cool to lukewarm, about 2 hours.
Serve pie lukewarm or at room temperature with vanilla ice cream.
