TO PREPARE THE MUSHROOM STOCK: 1. In a small pot, immerse the dried porcinis in 4 1/2 cups of water. Add the sprig of thyme whole.
2. Bring the mushroom mixture to a boil over high heat, then remove immediately from the stove and set aside for 5 minutes.
TO PREPARE THE ORZO: 1. Heat the olive oil in a medium saucepot. Add the onion and cook over medium heat until it takes on a light golden color, about 3 minutes, stirring regularly to prevent burning.
2. Add the mixed wild mushrooms and stir well to combine. Saut&ecute; on medium-high heat for 1 to 2 minutes, until the mushrooms are just starting to color. At this point, but not before, add the salt and pepper (if you do it earlier, before the mushrooms have opened up, the salt will pull out all the moisture). Mix well to combine and continue cooking for another 30 seconds, until the mushrooms have started to reduce and color.
3. Move the pan well away from the heat (so you don't catch fire) and add the vermouth. Stir to combine and then return to the heat for just a few seconds, until the vermouth and mushroom juices form a syrupy mixture in the bottom of the pan.
4. Remove the pan from the heat, add the orzo, and mix well, so the grains are all coated with the pan juices.
5. Remove the thyme sprig from the porcini mixture and discard. Pour the porcinis and liquid over the orzo.
6. Return the pan to medium-high heat and bring up to a low boil, stirring well to combine. Turn the heat down to low, and keep the mixture at a very lazy bubble for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. The orzo is done when it's swelled up and become tender, but still has a bit of a bounce between the teeth. There should be just a little bit of syrupy liquid on the bottom, but the orzo mixture should be a bit wet. (If you cook it till the liquid is completely absorbed, you'll have a sticky mess.)
TO FINISH THE DISH: 1. Remove the pot from the heat. Add the butter and mix in well; then add the Parmigiano-Reggiano and continue stirring. Add the parsley and thyme leaves and mix well, until the texture of the dish is softer and richer from the butter and cheese and all the ingredients are well combined. If you're using the truffle oil, add it and mix well so the oil is absorbed.
2. Serve as quickly as possible, topped with a little more of the grated Parmigiano-Reggiano.
