To make dough: Place water in small bowl. Sprinkle yeast over and stir to blend. Let stand until yeast dissolves, about 8 minutes.
Combine oats, 1/3 cup sugar, butter, lemon peel and salt in large bowl. Heat milk in small saucepan until bubbles from around edge of pan. Pour hot milk over oat mixture and stir until butter melts and sugar dissolves. Cool mixture to 105°F to 115°F, about 10 minutes.
Add egg, egg yolk, vanilla and dissolved yeast to oat mixture; stir to blend. Mix in 3 cups flour. Using firm spatula or large wooden spoon, beat batter 100 strokes. Cover bowl with plastic wrap; let batter rest 10 minutes.
Using spatula, mix enough flour into batter, 1/4 cupful at a time, to form soft dough. Turn dough out onto floured surface. Knead gently until smooth and slightly sticky dough forms, adding more flour if very sticky, about 8 minutes.
Lightly oil large bowl. Place dough in bowl; turn to coat with oil. Cover bowl with plastic wrap, then with towel. Let dough rise in warm draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 1 1/2 hours. Meanwhile, prepare syrup and filling.
To make syrup: Butter two 13 x 9 x 2-inch glass baking dishes. Combine maple syrup and butter in heavy medium skillet. Stir over medium heat until butter melts. Remove from heat. Mix in brown sugar. Pour half of syrup into each prepared dish; tilt to coat of bottom of dishes evenly. Sprinkle each with half of nuts; cool.
To make filling: Combine all ingredients in processor. Using on/off turns, blend until pecans are finely chopped. Transfer mixture to bowl.
To assemble and bake: Carefully turn doubled dough out onto floured surface (do not punch down dough). Roll dough gently to flatten slightly. Using hands, pull and stretch dough to 12 x 18-inch rectangle. Brush dough with all of melted butter. Sprinkle filling evenly over dough, leaving 1/2-inch plain border on 1 long side. Starting at long side opposite uncovered border, roll up dough jelly roll style, forming log. Pinch seam to seal.
Using heavy large knife, score log into 12 equal pieces. Cut log at scores. Arrange 6 pieces, cut side up and evenly spaced, in each prepared baking dish. Lightly press down on buns with palm of hand. Cover pans tightly with plastic wrap. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Refrigerate overnight.)
Let buns rise in warm draft-free area until light and puffy, about 50 minutes if buns are at room temperature or 1 hour 15 minutes if refrigerated.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375°F. Bake buns uncovered until tops are golden brown and syrup bubbles thickly, reversing dishes halfway through baking, about 25 minutes.
Remove dishes from oven. Immediately place large baking sheet over 1 baking dish. Using oven mitts as aid, grasp dish and baking sheet together and turn over, releasing buns and topping onto sheet. Turn second dish of buns onto another sheet. Cool buns 5 minutes. (Can be made ahead. Cool buns completely. Wrap buns tightly with foil on baking sheet. Freeze up to 2 weeks. Bake frozen buns covered 375°F until heated through, about 15 minutes.) Serve buns hot.
