For crust: Preheat oven to 325°F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Mix crumbs, sugar, and cinnamon in medium bowl. Add butter and stir to blend. Press mixture evenly onto bottom (not sides) of pan. Bake until crust is set, about 10 minutes. Cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
For filling: Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add mascarpone and beat until smooth. Mix in flour. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in vanilla, lemon juice, lemon peel, and salt. Pour filling into pan.
Bake cheesecake until puffed around edges and center moves slightly when pan is gently shaken (center may fall and crack), about 1 hour. Turn oven off; leave cake in oven with door closed 1 hour. Transfer cake to rack and cool completely. Stir sour cream until smooth; spread atop cake. Refrigerate cake overnight.
For glaze: Combine rhubarb, strawberries, sugar, 2/3 cup water, and lemon juice in large saucepan. Bring to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat and simmer until rhubarb is tender, about 9 minutes. Remove from heat; let cool 10 minutes. Pour mixture through strainer set over 4-cup measuring cup, pressing on solids to extract 1 1/2 cups liquid. Return 1 1/2 cups liquid to same saucepan; bring to simmer over medium heat. Whisk cornstarch and 3 tablespoons water to blend in small bowl; add to liquid in saucepan; whisk constantly until mixture boils and thickens, about 6 minutes. Pour glaze into small bowl; chill until cold, about 2 hours. Spread glaze over cheesecake. Refrigerate cheesecake for at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
For chocolate-covered strawberries: Line small baking sheet with waxed paper. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until smooth. Remove chocolate from over water. Dip strawberries halfway into melted chocolate. Gently shake off excess chocolate; place on prepared sheet. Chill until chocolate is set, about 30 minutes and up to 6 hours. Place strawberries around top edge of cake. Serve.
* Italian cream cheese available at Italian markets and many supermarkets.
