Make nut meringue: Preheat oven to 325°F. Line 17 12 x 11 1/2 x 1-inch jelly roll pan with parchment. Blend hazelnuts, almonds, 1/2 cup sugar and flour in processor until nuts are finely ground. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in large bowl until soft peaks form. gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold nut mixture into meringue in 2 additions. spread meringue mixture evenly in prepared pan.
Bake meringue until golden brown and dry to touch, about 20 minutes. Cool meringue in pan on rack.
Cut around pan sides. Using parchment as aid, lift meringue onto work surface. Press large sheet of waxed paper onto meringue to cover. Using scissors, cut through waxed paper and parchment to trim meringue to 16-inch-long by 8- inch-wide rectangle. Cut in half crosswise, then lengthwise, forming four 8-inch-long by 4-inch-wide rectangles.
Make ganache: Bring 1 1/4 cups cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until smooth. Transfer 1/4 cup ganache to small bowl; add remaining 3 tablespoons cream to make light ganache. Refrigerate light ganache until cold, at least 30 minutes. Refrigerate dark ganache until cold and thick, stirring often, about 1 hour.
Make coffee cream: Beat chilled whipping cream, instant espresso powder and sugar in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Refrigerate.
Place cake rack on work surface. Peel waxed paper and parchment off 1 meringue rectangle; place on cake rack. Spread with 1/3 cup dark ganache. Peel waxed paper and parchment off second meringue; place atop dark ganache. Whisk light ganache just until thick and stiff. Spread over second meringue. Peel waxed paper and parchment off third meringue; place atop light ganache. Spread with half of coffee cream; cover and refrigerate remaining coffee cream. Peel waxed paper and parchment off fourth meringue; place atop coffee cream. spread 1/2 cup dark ganache in thin layer over top and sides of torte to anchor crumbs and smooth surface. Refrigerate on rack 45 minutes. Place torte on rack onto large sheet of aluminum foil. Stir remaining dark ganache over very low heat just until warm enough to pour. Pour dark ganache over torte. Using icing spatula and working quickly, smooth top and sides for even coverage. Refrigerate on rack until glaze is firm, at least 2 hours. (Torte can be made 2 days ahead. Cover loosely; keep refrigerated.)
Using metal spatula, transfer torte to platter. Rewhip remaining coffee cream. Pipe in decorative pattern atop torte. Garnish with hazelnuts and serve.
