Divide dough in half. On a lightly floured surface with a lightly floured rolling pin roll out 1 piece of dough 1/4 inch thick (about a 15-inch round), keeping remaining piece of dough chilled. Transfer round to a large baking sheet and chill, covered. Roll out and chill remaining dough in same manner and stack it on top of first round. Chill pastry rounds, loosely covered with plastic wrap, 15 minutes.
Cut an X in blossom end of each peach. Have ready a large bowl of ice and cold water. Fill a 5-quart kettle three fourths full with water and bring to a boil. Working in batches, blanch peaches 15 seconds and transfer with a slotted spoon to ice water. Slip skins from peaches and, working over a large bowl to catch the juices, cut peaches into 1/2-inch-thick wedges. Gently toss peaches with sugar, cornstarch, lemon juice, vanilla, and raspberries until combined well.
With a spoon divide filling between two 9-inch (1-quart) glass pie plates, mounding fruit. Juice should reach no higher than 1/4 inch below rim of each pie plate. With spoon remove excess juice from pie plates and discard.
In a small bowl whisk eggs and evenly brush onto tops and undersides of pie plate rims. Cover each pie with a pastry round and trim pastry with scissors, leaving a 1/2-inch overhang and, if desired, reserving scraps for decorations. Brush undersides of overhang with some egg and press overhang onto and under rims of pie plates to seal. Chill pies until pastry is firm, about 20 minutes. Preheat oven to 425°F.
On a lightly floured surface with a lightly floured rolling pin roll out reserved pastry scraps 1/4 inch thick and with a sharp small knife cut out 2 decorations (such as the family initial), transferring to a plate. Chill decorations 15 minutes.
Line 2 jelly-roll pans with foil.
Brush crusts evenly with some egg and arrange decorations in centers, pressing lightly to adhere. With a sharp knife cut three 3/4-inch-long slits on top of each pie to form steam vents. Brush decorations with some egg and transfer pies to jelly-roll pans (to catch drips). Bake pies in upper and lower thirds of oven, staggering pans if possible on oven racks and switching position of pans halfway through baking, about 1 to 1 1/4 hours total, or until pastry is golden brown and cooked through. (If pastry gets too brown too quickly, tent pies with foil).
Let pies stand on racks to set juices at least 1 1/2 hours before serving. Pies may be made 1 day ahead and kept, loosely covered, at room temperature. If desired, reheat pies, uncovered, in a 350°F. oven.
