Preheat oven to 350°F. Spread bread on 2 large rimmed baking sheets. Bake until just golden, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Transfer to very large bowl.
Combine chicken broth and 1/3 cup Madeira in large saucepan. Simmer mixture 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Add porcini mushrooms. Cover and soak until porcini are tender, about 15 minutes. Drain porcini through sieve set over medium saucepan, pressing on porcini to extract as much liquid as possible. Coarsely chop porcini. Set mushroom broth and porcini aside.
Melt 2 tablespoons butter in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat. Add leeks and carrots and sauté until carrots are crisp-tender, about 6 minutes. Transfer to medium bowl. Melt remaining 3 tablespoons butter in same skillet over medium-high heat. Add crimini mushrooms and sauté until liquid evaporates and mushrooms are golden, about 6 minutes. Add shallots and reserved porcini mushrooms; sauté 1 minute. Add remaining 2/3 cup Madeira and cook until liquid evaporates, about 2 minutes. Add herbs and sauté 1 minute. Add to bowl with leeks. (Bread, mushroom broth and vegetable mixture can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover separately. Store bread at room temperature; refrigerate mushroom broth and vegetable mixture.) Add vegetable mixture to bread. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix eggs into stuffing.
To bake stuffing in turkey: Loosely fill main turkey cavity with stuffing. Add enough broth to remaining stuffing to moisten lightly (about 1/4 to 1/2 cup, depending on amount of remaining stuffing). Generously butter glass or ceramic baking dish. Spoon remaining stuffing into dish. Cover with buttered foil, buttered side down. Bake stuffing in dish alongside turkey until heated through, about 30 minutes. Uncover stuffing. Bake until top is just crisp and golden, about 15 minutes.
To bake all of stuffing in baking dish: Preheat oven to 350°F. Generously butter 15x10x2-inch square glass or ceramic baking dish. Add enough broth to stuffing to moisten (about 3/4 cup to 1 1/2 cups.) Transfer stuffing to prepared dish and add mushroom broth to moisten stuffing before baking. Cover with buttered foil, buttered side down; bake until heated through, about 30 minutes. Uncover and bake until top is crisp and golden, about 20 minutes longer.
