For puffs: Bring 1 cup water and butter to boil in heavy medium saucepan. Reduce heat to low; add flour and salt. Stir until mixture is smooth and pulls away from sides of pan, forming ball, about 1 minute. Transfer to large bowl. Using handheld mixer, beat in eggs 1 at a time, blending well after each addition. Cover dough loosely with plastic. Let stand until cool, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 425°F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Spoon dough into pastry bag fitted with 1/2-inch plain tip. Pipe 1-inch rounds on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Using moistened fingertips, smooth rounds. Bake until golden brown and puffed, about 23 minutes. Remove puffs from oven; turn off heat. Pierce side of each puff with tip of small knife. Return puffs to oven; let stand 10 minutes with door ajar. Remove from oven and cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
For filling: Place 1 tablespoon water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over. Bring milk, cream, and vanilla bean to simmer in heavy large saucepan. Whisk egg yolks, sugar, flour, and salt in large bowl to blend. Gradually whisk in hot milk mixture; return to saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until filling thickens and boils, about 1 minute. Stir in gelatin mixture. Transfer filling to medium bowl. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of filling and chill until cold, about 3 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.)
Spoon pastry cream filling into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch plain tip. Insert tip into cut on each puff and fill with cream. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and refrigerate.)
For sauce: Stir sugar and 1/3 cup water in heavy large saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high and boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber color, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan. Add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Whisk in butter. Remove from heat.
Place 4 puffs on each plate. Drizzle puffs with warm caramel sauce.
