Preheat the oven to 180°C (350°F).
To make the Tomato Jam, place the tomatoes on a baking sheet in the preheated oven for 20 to 30 minutes. Put the tomatoes through a food mill. In a food processor or bar mix (blender) purée the onion, garlic and ginger with 100 ml (1/2 cup) of the olive oil. Add the ground fennel, coriander and cumin to the onion mix.
Place a heavy-based pot on the stove and pour in the remaining olive oil. Add the paste, and cook for 30 minutes over low heat or until the paste caramelises. Put in the palm sugar and allow to caramelise. Add the fish sauce and reduce slightly. Add the vinegar and cook for 1 minute, then the tomato juice. Stir, and cook slowly for 2 hours. You should be left with a thick, spicy and sweet jam with no liquid. To store, place in a sterilised jar, cover with a film of oil and refrigerate.
To make the Aïoli, first combine the olive oils. Crush the garlic and salt together in a mortar and pestle. Whisk in the egg yolks, add the lemon juice and continue whisking while adding the olive oils in a thin stream until the emulsion thickens. Taste and adjust the seasoning if necessary.
To make the Braised Vegetables, peel the eggplant and cut the skins into 0.5 cm (1/4-inch) cubes (reserve the flesh for another use). Pour the olive oil into a heavy-based saucepan. Add the eggplant skins and fry until golden brown. Remove, and add the basil and parsley. Fry until dark green and crisp. Remove and strain the oil, reserving it for another use. Pour the extra-virgin olive oil into the pan and heat. Put in the onion, garlic and sea salt, and cook until soft. Add the capsicums (bell peppers) and anchovies, and cook for a further 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes, herbs and capers, and return the eggplant to the pan. Add the lemon juice and taste for seasoning. Cook for 1 minute, then remove and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 200°C (400°F).
Trim any excess fat off the lamb legs, leaving the shank on. Rub all over with sea salt and olive oil, and place in a roasting pan in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. Turn the lamb and add the potatoes. Cook for a further 15 minutes. Turn off the oven, remove the potatoes and cover the lamb loosely with foil. Leave the oven door open, and rest the lamb for 15 minutes.
In a pot combine the braised vegetables with the tomato jam in a 3:1 ratio. Add the olives and potatoes. Heat through, but don't boil.
Remove the lamb from the oven. Divide the vegetables and potatoes between 6 large white plates. Carve the lamb and place on top of the vegetables. Spoon over the aïoli, and grind over some pepper. Serve immediately.
