Cook beans: Cover beans with cold water to cover by 2 inches in a large bowl and soak, covered, overnight. Drain in a colander.
Cook onion and carrot in butter in a 4- to 5-quart pot over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until onion is softened, about 5 minutes. Add soaked beans, lemon juice, garlic, thyme, and bay leaf and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Simmer beans, partially covered, until tender, 50 minutes to 1 hour. Add salt, then cool beans in their cooking liquid, uncovered, until warm.
Prepare artichokes while beans are simmering: Squeeze juice from 1 lemon half into a large bowl of cold water, then drop same half into water.
Cut off stem of 1 artichoke flush with base using a sharp paring knife. Bend back outer leaves until they snap off close to base, then discard several more layers of leaves in same manner until you reach pale yellow leaves with pale green tips. Cut yellow leaves flush with top of artichoke bottom. Discard purple leaves and scoop out fuzzy choke with melon-ball cutter. Trim dark green fibrous parts from base and sides of artichoke with knife, then rub artichoke bottom all over with another lemon half and drop artichoke into acidulated water. Trim remaining artichokes in same manner.
Put 3 quarts water in a 5-quart pot, then squeeze juice from remaining 2 lemon halves into water and stir in oil and salt. Bring to a simmer. Drain artichoke bottoms and add to simmering liquid, then simmer, partially covered, until tender, about 25 minutes. Cool artichokes in cooking liquid until warm.
Make vinaigrette while beans and artichokes cool: Blend vinaigrette ingredients except canola oil in a blender until well combined. With motor running, add canola oil in a slow stream and blend until emulsified.
Cook scallops: Pat scallops dry and season with salt and pepper. Thread 4 scallops through sides onto each skewer. Heat oil in a 12-inch nonstick skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then sauté scallops, 3 skewers at a time, until golden and just cooked through, 21/2 to 3 minutes on each side. Transfer brochettes to a plate.
Assemble dish: Heat vinaigrette in a small saucepan over low heat, stirring, until warm. Drain beans in a colander, discarding bay leaf and thyme, and transfer to a large bowl. Transfer artichoke bottoms with a slotted spoon to beans and toss beans and bottoms gently with 1 cup vinaigrette and salt and pepper to taste.
Place an artichoke bottom, stemmed side down, in each of 6 shallow bowls or soup plates and top with beans. Arrange scallop brochettes over beans, then drizzle with remaining vinaigrette and sprinkle with parsley.
