Rinse turkey neck, gizzard, heart and wing tips. Place in heavy large saucepan. Add broth, vermouth, carrot, onion, mushrooms, sage and peppercorns. Bring to boil over medium-high heat. Reduce heat to low; cover pan. Simmer until neck meat is very tender, about 2 hours 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, place liver in heavy small saucepan; cover with cold water. Simmer over medium heat until firm to touch and cooked through, about 5 minutes. Drain.
Strain broth into small bowl. Transfer neck, gizzard and heart to work surface; discard remaining solids. Carefully remove all meat from neck. Chop meat finely. Cut away any tough membrane from gizzard. Chop gizzard, heart and liver finely. Combine meats in medium bowl. Spoon fat off top of broth and discard. (Giblets and broth can be made 1 day ahead. Cover separately and refrigerate.)
Gravy Baste the turkey occasionally with three to four cups of homemade or canned low-salt chicken broth. That will help to create the rich pan juices that go into the gravy.
Pour roasting pan juices into medium bowl. Spoon fat off top; discard fat. Return pan juices to roasting pan and set pan over 2 burners. Simmer over medium-high heat 2 minutes, stirring with wooden spoon and scraping up any browned bits from pan bottom. Strain mixture from pan into 4-cup glass measuring cup; add giblet broth. If necessary, add enough canned broth to measure 4 cups liquid or transfer giblet broth mixture to medium saucepan and boil until reduced to 4 cups liquid.
Cook bacon in heavy large skillet over medium heat until brown and crisp. Using tongs, transfer bacon to paper towels; drain. Discard all but 4 tablespoons drippings from skillet. Add flour. Whisk over medium heat until roux is golden brown, about 3 minutes.
Whisk in giblet broth mixture. Bring to a boil, whisking occasionally. Reduce heat to medium-low. Mix in vermouth and sage. Simmer until thickened to desired consistency, about 10 minutes. Add chopped meats to gravy. (If desired, chop some or all of the bacon and add to gravy.) Simmer until heated through, about 2 minutes. Season gravy with salt and pepper.
