For base: Coat an 8x8x2" metal baking pan with nonstick spray; line with plastic, pressing to smooth out any wrinkles. Place chocolate in a medium metal bowl; set over a saucepan of simmering water and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Stir in peanut butter, then cereal. Press over bottom of prepared pan in an even layer. Cover; chill for 1 hour.
For peanut nougat: Line a baking sheet with parchment; coat with nonstick spray. Place egg white in bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment. Beat on medium speed until frothy. Add 1/8 teaspoon sugar; beat until peaks begin to form. Bring honey to a boil in a small saucepan. With mixer running, gradually add honey to egg white. Set aside.
Stir 3/4 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons water, and corn syrup in a small saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Attach a candy thermometer to side of pan. Increase heat; boil until mixture reaches 275°F, 5–7 minutes. Return mixer with egg white to medium speed. Gradually add syrup to egg white, allowing it to drip down sides of bowl. Beat until glossy and stiff, about 5 minutes. Fold in peanuts and salt. Spread nougat over prepared sheet into an 8" square (about 1/4" thick). Let cool for 1 hour.
Invert nougat over base in pan; peel off parchment. Spread over base in even layer.
For milk chocolate bavarian cream: Place 2 tablespoons milk in a small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand to soften, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring remaining 2 tablespoons milk and 1/4 cup cream to a simmer in a small saucepan. Whisk yolks and sugar in a medium bowl; gradually whisk in hot cream mixture. Return to same pan. Stir over medium-low heat until thickened and a thermometer registers 175°F, about 3 minutes. Add gelatin; whisk until dissolved.
Place melted chocolate in another medium bowl. Pour cream mixture through a strainer into chocolate; whisk until smooth.
Beat remaining 3/4 cup chilled cream in a small bowl until soft peaks form. Fold into chocolate mixture in 2 additions, folding just to blend between additions. Pour Bavarian cream over nougat, spreading in an even layer. Freeze until firm, about 4 hours.
For chocolate coating: Place chocolate and butter in a bowl set over a medium saucepan of simmering water. Stir until melted.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Invert 8" pan onto a work surface; remove pan and peel off plastic. Turn over. Cut into 6 slices, then halve each slice crosswise. Transfer pieces to prepared baking sheet, base side down. Using an offset spatula, spread chocolate over tops and sides of bars. Freeze to set, 30 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover with foil; freeze. Let stand at room temperature for 15 minutes before serving.
