Make purée: Cook onion in 1/3 cup oil in a 4- to 5-quart heavy pot over moderately low heat, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 8 minutes. Add split peas and stir until well coated, then stir in water and bay leaf. Increase heat to moderately high and bring to a boil, then reduce heat and slowly simmer, partially covered, stirring occasionally, until mixture is soupy, about 1 hour. Stir in salt and continue to cook, stirring more frequently as purée thickens, until water is absorbed and mixture is the consistency of creamy mashed potatoes, 30 minutes to 1 hour more. Remove from heat and stir in lemon juice and remaining 1/3 cup oil, then cool to room temperature, pot covered with a kitchen towel. (Purée will thicken as it cools.) Discard bay leaf.
Make eggplant compote while split peas simmer: Toss eggplant with 3/4 teaspoon salt in a colander set over a bowl. Place a plate or bowl directly on top of eggplant to weight it down and let drain 1 hour. Rinse eggplant (discarding liquid) and pat dry.
Cut a shallow X in bottom of each tomato with a paring knife and blanch tomatoes in a 2- to 3-quart saucepan of boiling water 10 seconds. Transfer tomatoes with a slotted spoon to a cutting board and, when cool enough to handle, peel, beginning from scored end, with knife. Halve tomatoes crosswise and seed, then cut into 1-inch pieces.
Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a 12-inch heavy nonstick skillet over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking, then add eggplant and sauté, stirring occasionally, until just golden, transferring to a plate. Reduce heat to low, then add remaining 3 tablespoons oil and onions to skillet and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened and golden, 15 to 20 minutes. Add garlic and cook, stirring, 2 minutes. Stir in honey until incorporated. Add eggplant, tomatoes, capers, basil, pepper, and remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, then gently simmer, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes. Stir in vinegar (to taste) and remove from heat. Transfer to a bowl and cool to room temperature, uncovered.
Serve purée topped with eggplant and drizzled with olive oil.
