1. In a large pot of well-salted boiling water, blanch asparagus. (That is, dump the asparagus into boiling water for just a minute, and then take them out with some tongs and put them in a colander. Run cold water over them so they stop cooking.) Use the same water to cook your pasta, according to package directions. Toss a little olive oil into the cooked pasta so it does not stick together and set aside.
2. In a large pot of boiling water, cook lobsters for approximately 6-8 minutes. When shells are bright red, remove from water, and place in ice water or run under cold water to stop the lobster from cooking any further. Remove claws, shoulder, and tail meat, and set aside.
3. Dice celery, onions, and carrots, grate Fontina and Gruyère cheeses, and set aside.
Sauce: 1. In a large pot, sauté diced veggies in olive oil.
2. When veggies become translucent pour in white wine and add your bay leaf. Let the wine reduce by half and then add the heavy cream. Let the cream come just to a simmer and reduce to medium heat.
3. After this reduces for approximately 20 minutes, add both cheeses (reserve a little for later). Make sure to stir frequently. You want the sauce just hot enough to melt the cheese, but if it gets any hotter, you'll run the risk of the cream and oils separating.
4. Once the cheese is incorporated, season with salt and pepper to your liking. Go easy on the salt, though — it does not take much to release the flavor of this cheese sauce. You can use white or black pepper, whichever you prefer.
5. After seasoning, strain the cheese sauce through a medium-to-small mesh sieve or colander.
To the bowl: 1. In a large sauté or baking pan over medium heat, add your cheese sauce and lobster. Once heated add your pasta and the little bit of cheeses you reserved. You should get a nice mac and cheese consistency. You can always add more cheese.
2. The final step is to add sliced asparagus just before plating. This will ensure that they remain nice and green.
3. Once the mac and cheese is in the bowl, here's your final touch, and the most important! Drizzle a modest amount of truffle oil over the entire dish. If you do have access to white truffles, 3-4 slices on top is divine. Enjoy.
