For dark chocolate shards: Stir chocolate in medium metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove bowl. Place sheet of waxed paper on work surface. Pour chocolate onto paper. Working quickly and using offset spatula, spread chocolate in thin layer over paper into 10x10-inch square. Place second sheet of waxed paper over, pressing to release most air bubbles. Roll paper up tightly into 3/4-inch-wide roll and chill until set, about 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 5 days ahead. Wrap in plastic and keep chilled.
For cherry compote: Stir cherries and preserves in medium saucepan over medium-high heat until preserves melt and mixture begins to simmer. Reduce heat to medium and continue to simmer until cherries begin to soften, stirring often, about 5 minutes. Stir in almond extract. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill. Rewarm slightly before serving.
For pie crust: Preheat oven to 350°F. Lightly coat 9-inch-diameter glass pie dish with nonstick spray. Process broken cookies, sugar, and pinch of salt in processor until cookies are finely ground. Add melted butter; using on/off turns, process until incorporated. Press firmly and evenly onto bottom and up sides of prepared dish.
Bake crust until firm, about 12 minutes. Transfer pie dish to rack; cool completely.
For mousse: Place 2 tablespoons water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand until softened, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, stir 3/4 cup cream and white chocolate in small saucepan over medium-low heat until chocolate is smooth. Remove from heat. Add gelatin mixture; stir until dissolved. Transfer to large bowl. Stir in 3/4 cup cream. Refrigerate just until chilled but not set, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour.
Using electric mixer, beat chilled white chocolate mixture until firm peaks form. Fold in chopped cherries. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until foamy. Add almond extract and pinch of salt and continue beating until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in sugar. Continue beating until stiff peaks form. Add egg white mixture to white chocolate mixture; fold just to incorporate.
Spoon white chocolate mousse into cooled crust, mounding in center. Unroll dark chocolate shards from waxed-paper roll (chocolate will break into long, curved pieces when paper is opened). Arrange shards decoratively atop mousse. Chill until mousse is set, at least 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep chilled.
Cut pie into wedges and serve with warm cherry compote.
